therapist: Okay, so I wrote a prescription for an antibiotic for Aiden and that should help with the ear infection, but in looking through the chart, I mean, it seems like he's had six or seven of these just in the past year or so.
client: Yeah.
therapist: That's really a big problem.
client: Yeah, it's pretty stressful for both of us. He gets really upset.
therapist: Well, one of the primary risk factors for multiple ear infections in kids is actually smoke exposure. Are you smoking?
client: Yeah, I-- Yeah, I do smoke, but I don't smoke around him. I try really hard not to smoke around him.
therapist: Well, the fact that he's having these ear infections is indicating to me that he is being exposed to smoke, and so, what can you tell me about that?
client: I-I don't know. I mean, I try really hard not to smoke around him. I don't smoke in the car. Um, when he's home, I go outside to smoke. I just-- I mean, I know it's bad, and I know it's bad for him, so I don't want him to be around it so I try really hard.
therapist: I really need you to quit smoking. Both for your health and for Aiden. Did you know s-smoking around your child is associated not only with ear infections, it could get to the point where you have to put tubes in his ears pretty shortly here. Also, things like vitamin C deficiency, cavities, like dental cavities, behavior problems, um, asthma, other upper respiratory infections. It's really putting him at a lot of risk. In addition to that, kids of smokers end up smoking themselves. Do you want him to grow up to be a smoker?
client: No, but I don't smoke. I'm-- I-I-I've thought about quitting, but it's just- It's really hard so I just don't know how to do it.
therapist: Well, now's the time to quit. It's really gotten to the point where you can't keep smoking. Not only for him, like I said, but also for you. You're putting yourself at risk for lung cancer, for emphysema, for oral cancers, for heart disease, for all kinds of things-
client: I know, I know. I've heard-- People have told me before, I've heard all that. I just don't know how to do it. How am I supposed to quit? It's-it's so hard.
therapist: Well, there's all kinds of things you can use now. It's not as hard as it used to be. You can use nicotine replacement. There's patches, there's lozenges, there's gum, there's the inhaler, there's nasal spray. We can talk about medications. You can try Chantix, you can try Zyban, there's quit smoking groups you can go to, there's hotlines you can call.
client: I just don't have time for any of that.
therapist: There's no reason why you shouldn't be able to quit, this is really important.
client: I understand that. I know it is. I mean, everybody has problems, right? It's just really-- It's really, really hard.
therapist: Well, what can be more important to you than the health of your child?
client: I don't know.
therapist: I really need you to tell me that you're gonna quit smoking. This is really important.
client: I'll-I'll-I'll go look at all those things and-and I'll find-- I guess I'll-I'll try to find something, and-and I'll talk to my doctor about it.
therapist: Okay. Well, I think you really need to think about this seriously. Like I said, it's really putting yourself and your child in danger.
client: Okay, whatever. Okay.
therapist: Okay.