therapist: So, Chris, I wanted to talk to you. Um, you know, you're one of our star athletes. I really value you as a team player. As Athletic Director, one of my jobs is to, kind of, keep tabs on the players and make sure everybody is performing at their best. And something came up this weekend. I've been hearing some chatter about a big party that went down and understand you were there. And so I wanted to talk to you a little bit about how partying and alcohol fits in your life right now.
client: Okay, oh, actually, could I confide something in you that has been bothering me lately. Well, prior to that party, like, as you know, I'm a honor student and my parents, like, they keep me very, like k-kept down out of the, like so- like social life.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And, um, about a month ago, my friends invited me to a party. And they used the fact that, Oh, I'm always doing my homework, I'm always studying that to allow me to go to the party. And on-- well, that party, I managed to convince my parents that I would spend the night at my friend's house. So, that's when I started drinking.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: It was a- it was a unique experience, as you can say. I guess you can say. And, I don't know, I-- It was fun, at least, in the moment. So, I kept doing it. Then this past weekend, instead of studying for an exam, I asked my-- I begged my mom to let me go to another party. And she, kind of, knew what I was doing. She asked me to, like, to promise her of no alcohol, no drugs. Then I'll pick you up by 12:00. And I-I was surprised. 12:00-12:00, that's basically when the party starts, but I told her whatever-- I thought- I thought to myself that I'll-I'll come-- I'll figure out to delay her, can you pick me up later? So later, so she-- I promised that-- She dropped me off, I promised her no alcohol, no nothing. So I-- we go, I have fun like I've been having. And I was drinking. And then the time- the time came for her to pick me up. And as soon-- I couldn't delay her from picking me up. And as soon as she picked me up, and I stepped in the car, she said, "You drank vodka." And I'm like, I-I didn't know what to say. I just looked at the floor. And I-I feel terrible because I-I betrayed my mother. I broke my trust with her that she expected me not to indulge in alcohol. And that's exactly what I did.
therapist: So, here you are. You're an honors student. You're a star athlete. You've, kind of, been doing everything you've been told for all these years, and maybe last month sometime, you started getting more involved in the party scene.
client: Right.
therapist: And it was fun at first. But now you're already noticing some consequences.
client: Yes, right. Like I've been noticing I've been more lethargic and apathetic towards schoolwork.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I haven't really-- I kind of just sit in class like-- I-- my mind is elsewhere, especially on the weekends, where instead of-- I was- I was instead of studying, I caught up with my friends, trying to find where we can-- I get alcohol based on their age and stuff like that.
therapist: It's really changed your focus. What do you like about drinking?
client: I don't know. It-It's because I'm a very reserved person, for the most part, not when- not when I'm dealing with sports or like-- you know, like a social environment. I tend to keep to myself because I'm very self-conscious, I would say. And when I- when I drink, I feel, I don't know, like, it relaxes me. I'm able to talk or engage with other people more easily. I don't know it just—
therapist: So, it helps you, kind of, loosen up, feel more relaxed.
client: Exactly.
therapist: Sounds like you're noticing quite a few not so good things about alcohol though your mom got mad at you, you're having decreased focus, you're, kind of, not doing so well in school, maybe-
client: Kind of.
therapist: -or any other things?
client: Just different groups, friends or groups, girlfriends, like different people that I'm hanging out with because certain people are associated with that type of scene.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: So, that-that-that's also changed.
therapist: So, your-your friends that you were hanging out with, there's a little tension there now.
client: A little bit because not all of them are into that. So, like, I'm in one group of friends, and I would talk to another person that's an another group of friends and they just happen to invite me to that first party.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: So, since then, I've been hanging out more with them, getting to know them. But I can also see that oh, I'm just living life, I guess. But that's also not fair to them that I'm not there for them as much as I was before.
therapist: Okay.
client: As they are there for me, you know.
therapist: Well, given that you've sort of noticed all these changes where it's affecting your friendships, it's affecting your studying, it's affecting your relationship with your mom. Where do you think you should kind of go from here?
client: Oh, um, I feel I should st-stop. I mean, like, I'm not-not unrealistic. I understand that situations like this will happen.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: It's just up to me not to take it so far, where I can't remember the night before, if I'm puking. All I remember is the toilet-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -that's-that's not worth it, either. And I have to slowly build back my trust with my mother because that was that's a big blow. It's little so I guess may seem to other people.
therapist: Yeah.
client: But to me then it's a big thing.
therapist: Your mom is really important to you.
client: Of course.
therapist: And how she feels about you is important to you.
client: Exactly.
therapist: How important is it to you to make, uh, an adjustment in your drinking or even to quit?
client: A lot at this point because I feel that's a big factor with gaining back my trust with my mother.
therapist: Okay.
client: And also getting back on top of my school work again my athletics too.
therapist: Okay.
client: So I feel that there-there's a future in that.
therapist: How confident are you that you could actually change your drinking or-or even cut down or quit?
client: I'm pretty confident, especially.
therapist: O-on a scale of 1 to 10 where one is not at all 10 is completely what number would you give.
client: Probably like an 8 or 9.
therapist: Okay.
client: And that can't be a ten there's nothing as ten in life I feel. Like there's too many factors but I feel like I'm determined to.
therapist: Why did you say eight or nine rather than six or seven?
client: Because I don't know I feel deter-determined to-to make sure this happens because I don't like how I felt after I-I betrayed my mother. I don't like remembering that the feeling of like vomiting.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: It's not a pleasant experience. Uh, it's not something that I wish to enjoy. So like even if I do drink, I don't want to drink to the point where that happens, like all the fun that I have and prior to that just it's not worth-it's not worth drinking.
therapist: All right, what do you think's a realistic goal for you then?
client: To make sure I have my studies. Well first, try to get-get back my trust with mother-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -then just focus on my studies. Then if I have time for leisure time like I'll go party with my friends and just be as a party with them doesn't mean I have to drink. And I do one cup is not going to do anything to my life either. But I'd prefer not to do that. I prefer just make sure.
therapist: So your goal is kind of to do not drink at all or if you are at a party, uh, a maximum of one at the very most.
client: Exactly. Just so I take part with the social convention but it's not. Hey guys.
therapist: Yeah. Chris, I really appreciate you talking with me about this. I know it seems like something that's been on your mind as it is and, you know, like I said I really care about you as a student and an athlete and want what's best for you. So I'm glad we were able to talk about this. It really seems like you have a good plan going forward, you know, really striving for not drinking alcohol at all and if you find yourself in a situation where there's alcohol, making sure to have that limit of one drink maximum. It sounds like something that will work for you.
client: And-and thank you for listening me listening to me. It means a lot to me.
therapist: It's my-- yeah it's my pleasure. It's part of my job and it's probably like this so. I'm going to hurry up and get changed for practice.