therapist: Hi, Sandra.
client: Hi.
therapist: Thanks for coming in and talking with me for a couple of minutes. I understand you don't have very much time, but I really appreciate you stopping by.
client: Well, I came today because my daughter's in the hospital as well. I think it's important to quit, but I enjoy smoking. I'm not ready to give it up right now. My life is too much in turmoil.
therapist: So I get the impression that there are some things that you're concerned about, but that overall, coming in here wasn't necessarily the first thing that was on your mind when you came to the hospital with your daughter. Um, so can you tell me, what was it that made it possible for you to even come in? What-what were some of the things you were thinking about?
client: I think it's important because I've-- I feel I'm a bad role model for my children, and my daughter's turning 12, and already, some of her friends have tried smoking, so I don't want her to think it's a good thing.
therapist: So the last thing you'd want is for your daughter to start smoking.
client: I smoked when I was young, and I certainly don't want it for her.
therapist: Hmm. And it sounds like your smoking, setting an example, those are some things that-that you're also, uh, a bit concerned about, um, but as you said earlier, not-not really ready to put down your cigarettes immediately.
client: Well, that's true. It seems so hard. I'm just not ready for this right now.
therapist: So Sandra, what's good about smoking? What do you like about it?
client: It's very enjoyable, relaxing, you know, a stress reliever. When I'm at work, we all go out and smoke and chit chat and, you know, talk about things. I would hate to not smoke, really. I'd be left out.
therapist: What else? Tell me what else is good about it.
client: Hmm, I like to have a cigarette after I eat. It sort of tells my brain I'm finished, stop eating, I'm full. So it's a- it's a way to-- you know, sometimes I'll have a cigarette instead of a snack, so it's a way to control my weight.
therapist: Okay. So is there anything else that you like about it?
client: Let me think. Well, I just enjoy it. I think it's, uh-- it's not good for me, I know, but I'm so used to smoking. I don't really think about quitting too much.
therapist: So let me make sure that I understand all of the good things about smoking, the things that you like about it, and let me know if I've missed anything or left anything out.
client: Okay.
therapist: So it sounds like it's a way to relax. It's a way to socialize with your friends from work, and it's hard to imagine what it would be like for you at work if you couldn't go outside and smoke.
client: That's true. Yeah.
therapist: You also mentioned that smoking is a way to manage your weight, and concern that if you were-were going to quit smoking, what that would do in terms of, um, gaining weight, and that smoking after meals is pleasurable, that it's something that would be really hard to give up.
client: Yeah.
therapist: I also heard that it's very much a part of your life. It's something that you've done for a really long time and almost impossible to think about yourself as a non-smoker. Does that capture, for you, some of the good things or things that are keeping you smoking?
client: Exactly.
therapist: So I'm hearing there are some things you really like about smoking. What about the other side? Can you tell me about some of the not-so-good things?
client: Well, I-I'm worried about my children. I feel like I'm being a bad parent, and um, I often wonder, you know, they've seen me smoke for years. I certainly don't want my 12-year-old daughter to start smoking, and some of her friends are already smoking.
therapist: Sandra, can you give me an example of a time that you did something that you think left an impression on your daughter or set a bad example for her?
client: Yeah, just this morning, I was outside having a cigarette, and then when I looked up, there she was looking out the window watching me smoke.
therapist: So this morning, that experience, it really brought home how she does watch you, and she does really look up to you and notice what you do. How did that feel when you looked up and saw her watching you?
client: I felt terrible, you know, I was projecting-- I wanna be a good parent, and I don't feel this really is part of the plan.
therapist: And again, thanks for your honesty in talking about this. I appreciate that this is a- this is a tough topic. This is a-a hard behavior to think about giving up. Um, I guess one thing that- one thing that doesn't make sense to me is that, you know, on the one hand, you talk about how being a good parent is your highest priority, it's really important to you to set a good example for your daughter-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -um, and on the other hand, I'm hearing you say that smoking is important in terms of stress relief, socializing, and it's something you can't imagine ever changing. How do those two things fit together?
client: It doesn't fit, you know. It's the opposite side of the coin. You know, I love to do it, but I don't think it's right.
therapist: So what would it take for quitting or changing your smoking to be something that was more important, that raised it up in the list of priorities for you?
client: I can't think of anything right now.
therapist: Okay.
client: I don't have any plans to quit. It's just something I'm thinking about.
therapist: So, it's-it's not so much that you don't wanna quit in a way, it's almost, "How could I do it that would work for me?"
client: Exactly.
therapist: Okay. I appreciate. We've- we've probably used up the time that we have. I would love to see you next week if you'd be willing to schedule another appointment and talk with you more about this. Is that something that would be helpful?
client: Oh, sure. Sure, I'll come in. Yeah.
therapist: Okay. So I hear-- [crosstalk]
client: We can talk about it some more.
therapist: [chuckles] Not necessarily the-the most exciting thing for you to do, but I appreciate you are willing to do that. Can I also ask you to do a little bit of homework between now and next week? I promise it's not too time-consuming. Um, we have a booklet that we like to give folks who are just thinking about changing, who aren't sure that this is something that they're ready to do, and one of the exercises is to write down your top three reasons for change, why you would even consider quitting smoking. And then to reflect on some of the good things as we talked about, as well as some of the less good things about quitting and about continuing to smoke. Is that something you'd be willing to do over the next few days?
client: Okay, okay, I'll give it a try.
therapist: Okay, here you go.
client: Thank you.
therapist: So thanks for coming in, Sandra. We'll see you next week.
client: All right.