therapist: Okay, so why don't you have a rinse, David. How are you feeling?
client: Okay.
therapist: Good. Here, take a look, see what you think. And that feeling-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -and the color's okay? You know, there is quite a lot of staining so, um, I'm just wondering about, um, some concerns about smoking.
client: Oh.
therapist: Possibly-
client: Gonna get that again.
therapist: -coffee, tea. Yeah, you've heard this before, I'm sure.
client: I do all the above, yeah.
therapist: Mm-hmm. So, you know, the smoking is going to be related not just to some of the other negative consequences. You know, physically, it affects dental caries, dental cavities-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -um, healing-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -in your mouth.
client: Okay. Sure.
therapist: So--
client: I've heard it all. I-- but I just want to get my teeth fixed.
therapist: Yes, and I really want to be helpful. I really want to-- you know, my commitment is to your oral health, so um, there are lots of medications out there, David, that actually take away a lot of the cravings. They're-- they make quitting so much easier.
client: I did a pill thing, so I did try it. So like, I did try try it. I just did the pills and they didn't work.
therapist: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
client: It was a waste and it caused more side effects
therapist: .No, it-- but David, it's not a waste. Research shows that people take on average about seven tries before they quit smoking, so think of it as you're one step closer to quitting, so--
client: Or seven lectures along the road.
therapist: Well, I don't think I'm giving you a lecture, that's certainly not what I meant. I--
client: No. No, I just feel that way. I get really-- I get very defensive about when they bring-- cause I get it from my family doc, from my cardiologist, everybody. I'm like, I'm not a complete fool. I am for smoking, but—
therapist: Well, there's-there's a reason that [crosstalk] people are concerned.
client: -but it's not easy to quit.
therapist: No. But as I said, these medications-- so you've tried the medication, you've been willing once.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Then, can I write you a prescription for the medication? Can we talk about how you could use it? Because this is something that-that's very important. Not just for your overall physical health, for your oral health--
client: I guess I got to really want to and-- things I've tried usually caused me more problems than they helped.
therapist: Oh no, the smoking's going to cause you more problems than the-- than anything else. I can promise you that, David.
client: Okay.
therapist: The side effects from the medications are nothing compared to what can happen from the smoking.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Like, that's the, I think, thing to really consider.
client: Okay. Well, can I go now?
therapist: I'm-- okay, but you know--
client: I-I-I know it, I know- I know, doc, what you're trying to-- but I just don't want to get into that right now.
therapist: Okay. Well thanks for listening, and honestly, I- I am really worried about the smoking, so--
client: Okay.
therapist: I um--
client: I appreciate your care.
therapist: I'm here to help, okay?
client: Okay.
therapist: So--