therapist: Hello, nice to meet you again. And, uh, and what seems to be the-the problem or what-what prompted you to come along?
client: Uh, just I'm sick of my drinking. I'm drinking too much. Um, I just thought, uh, maybe I need someone to talk to, get some help about it.
therapist: Okay, so you feel as if drinking is a problem for you at the moment?
client: Yeah, it's just- it's just got worse over the last six months?
therapist: Okay. Wh-What makes you say that it's gotten worse?
client: Well, I guess, I drank, you know, like most people do before, um, but I broke up with my boyfriend, uh, about a year ago and then six months ago I guess I wanted to go out again and see if I can meet people.
therapist: Okay.
client: And I've been, yeah, getting into this habit of going out every Friday and Saturday, now, uh, drinking a lot.
therapist: Yes.
client: Um, to try to meet guys.
therapist: Sure.
client: And, uh, in the last few months I've been, you know, just drinking even more on week nights, and I never even used to do that before.
therapist: Okay, okay, so you've noticed over, I guess, uh, the last six months in particular since you decided, you know what? I'm going to take a risk and-a-and go out to try to meet a-a-a pot-potential partner again that it's with an increase in drinking.
client: Yeah. Well, I just, I don't feel comfortable talking to guys normally. [chuckles]
therapist: Okay.
client: I don't know what to say, um, and I just, drinking helps.
therapist: Sure, sure. So you're noticing that the drinking at the moment is a way of perhaps calming the nerves?
client: Yeah, for sure.
therapist: To-to-to speak to-to potential partners?
client: Yeah, definitely.
therapist: Who-who-who, boys?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Okay.
client: I mean, I guess, like most people do when they go out they drink.
therapist: Okay.
client: I've been doing that and just drinking more and more I guess.
therapist: Sure.
client: Um, and it's just-- it's not even working, I'm not really meeting people and I just end up with massive hangover for the rest of the weekend and—
therapist: That's interesting isn't it? You-- 'cause you kind of mentioned it there, like, you know, on one side of the coin, um, it helps calm the nerves to get yourself get out there and-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -talk to guys at the same time, on the other side it's not working you're finding. And i-i-it results in hangovers or?
client: Yeah, I mean, I've maybe talked to people but it's just, uh, that I've just I think I'm just too-too drunk and I just, my friends drive me home and just the end of the night I don't-- yeah.
therapist: Okay, and so I guess, you know, what would you like to do given the circumstances?
client: I guess I just wanna stop. I just feel like I'm drinking more and more 'cause I'm doing it now in the weekdays-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -and I mean, I just don't-- I don't wanna do that every now and now I just think it's a bit too much.
therapist: Okay.
client: Yeah, I'm just I'm not eating properly anymore, I'm just eating less or just getting takeaway, getting crap food and-
therapist: Okay.
client: -um, I'm just, I feel like I'm not exerc-- well I'm not exercising like I used to. So, I just wanna cut, you know, stop drinking so much.
therapist: Okay, okay, so, uh, sounds like you really want to stop drinking, particularly during the weekdays?
client: Yeah. Yeah I do. Yeah.
therapist: Right, because you're noticing it's having a negative impact on what you're eating.
client: Yeah. I don't wanna- I don't wanna, I mean, I don't wanna stop altogether, so.
therapist: No, I get it. Yeah. I mean, you know, it sounds like it's, it is helpful to a degree for you when you go out because it makes you feel a little bit more calm to talk to-to guys is that right?
client: Yeah and just and all my friends go out and drink. Like I-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -I'd have no social life if I didn't.
therapist: Yeah.
client: If I just said-said, "No, I'm not drinking at all," and, you know, I don't feel like I'm an alcoholic-
therapist: Sure.
client: -or I don't feel like I need to
therapist: Yeah, yeah. So, you've got, you know, some benefits there then, you know. The social element, hanging with friends and-and going out together is something which is-is quite enjoyable. So, it's not a case of removing it completely but it’s a case of, "Okay, I’m noticing this is impacting on me more than what I’d like to." Yeah. Yeah, okay.
client: Yeah, it just got a bit out of control.
therapist: Has there been times in the past where you’ve tried to cut back on drinking?
client: No, this hasn’t happened before.
therapist: Oh, this is the first time anything like this has come up?
client: Um, due to just circumstance of, I mean, I just yeah, had my boyfriend for six years before that and-
therapist: Yes, yes.
client: Um, before that yeah just my friends weren't drinking so much, and yeah it’s just not, it's just new. Yeah.
therapist: Okay, yeah. Well, it’s great that you’re able to identify, you know, what’s going on at the moment and you've-- not only know that, you almost picked up on a bit of a pattern too you're in-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -as to why you’re-you're drinking. In terms of looking at cutting back on-on drinking, you know, on a scale of 0 to 100 and 100, uh, meaning it’s tremendously important for you and 0 not important at all. How important is it for you to cut back on the drinking?
client: I believe 80, I mean I guess that’s why I’m here so—
therapist: Okay, yeah yeah sure, you're already taking a huge step forward in many ways by coming along to-to start talking about it.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Um, I guess 80 is quite high, what makes you say an 80 over say 50?
client: Um, I don’t know, I just-just I don’t know, it just sort-- it just got up to a point where just, um, it seemed just too much, like no-nobody else is really drinking as much in the week as well and-
therapist: Okay.
client: -it seemed, as just, yeah, for the reasons I was saying, just seeing like I need to do something about it now.
therapist: Okay, yes, so you’ve got this real sense of, "I've gotta do something."
client: Just seeing it’s just gonna get worse, uh, wha-- that’s what it seems like.
therapist: That’s what it seems like.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So, at the moment, it's been a case of the last six months, this is a pattern that you’ve been noticing more and more, um, a sign that it has had negative impacts on your lifestyle which you’re not happy with and you are in you're in a position where, you know what? I wanna do something about it.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Okay, I mean what do you think that next step is?
client: Um, I guess that’s why I’m here. [chuckles]
therapist: Yeah.
client: Just to, uh, but um-- I is-is-- I think the weekdays is what I really need to do.
therapist: Okay.
client: Um, and then, I don’t know, try to plan it out a little bit more on the weekends-
therapist: Okay.
therapist: -so it just doesn’t go crazy.
therapist: Okay, okay, so you’re thinking about perhaps looking at trying to keep weekdays free of alcohol? Was that what you were saying?
client: Yeah, yeah. Yep.
therapist: Okay, how does that sound like a first step goal for you?
client: No, that’s good, that’s-that's, yeah, that's- that is definitely what I’m gonna do.
therapist: Okay.
client: I just, you know, I'm so out of the routine, not exercising, I need to get back into things.
therapist: Okay, you sound really mad about it to-to turn it around.
client: Yeah, but I mean, I guess, just talking about it makes me think oh yeah, I need to- I need to do something about it.
therapist: Okay, oh, that-that's excellent, okay.