client: Dr. Morrow, I'm so relieved I'm not pregnant.
therapist: Huh, you feel like you dodged the bullet.
client: I really feel like I dodged the bullet. That was- that was probably the scariest like two days of my life.
therapist: It feels like it was like two days was a year?
client: Yup.
therapist: Ah.
client: Yeah, it went so slow.
therapist: Okay.
client: Even just being here today is like minutes ticking by.
therapist: Okay.
client: It's really good news.
therapist: So what would have happened if you found out that you were pregnant?
client: I don't even know. I'm-I'm not ready to have a kid. I know that. I know my life is not ready for that step.
therapist: Okay. That's a big step and that's not the direction you want to go in right now.
client: Yeah, no.
therapist: Would you be open to kind of exploring the idea of birth control and family planning?
client: Um, I don't really want to go there. I just-- that sort of stuff just weirds me out. Yeah, I take something fun and just makes it really medical.
therapist: Now, it's a discussion you don't really wanna have.
client: No.
therapist: At the same time, you have some concerns about the possibility of getting pregnant.
client: Yeah, I mean I'm-I'm careful. I do what I can, but I don't wanna take anything for that.
therapist: So you found some ways to prevent pregnancy up until-- well, maybe, um, you've been pretty fortunate, and then there is also some times where you feel like, "Oh, no. What if I didn't dodge the bullet?"
client: Yeah. It's-it's scary. I mean, this is the first time I've ever had that sort of feeling of "What am I gonna do?"
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And-and that fear was like-- yeah. Up until now, I've been good, yeah.
therapist: Okay. So, you've been able to kind of avoid any kind of consequences, and right now, you're not feeling that talking about birth control is something on your-your list.
client: Yeah. No, it- it's just- it's just weird for me. I don't- I don't like thinking about that stuff, yeah.
therapist: Sure. I totally appreciate that, and it's your decision, Olivia. You know yourself best and what fits for you. If you ever feel like you like to open up the idea of conversation about family planning or birth control, I'd love to talk to you about that another time.
client: Yeah, maybe another time. Just, I'm not ready for it.
therapist: Okay.
client: I'm not ready for that conversation right now.
therapist: Okay. I respect that. Thanks though for coming in to see me today.
client: Yeah.
therapist: And I'm glad that this appointment was a positive one for you.
client: Thank you.
therapist: You're welcome.