therapist: Thanks for coming in today. I guess you've, uh, sat in that seat with lots of people like me in the past.
client: Mm.
therapist: Yeah. And you have some ideas about that and some experiences about that. So today I wanna- be good for us to talk about that and, um, I'm really interested to know what you've been thinking about in terms of what you may wanna change in your life 'cause we're gonna be working together for a while here.
client: Right. Neat. What, um, what have I changed, what am I—
therapist: What you've been thinking about, um, over the last little while about getting your life back on track. 'Cause I noticed you've—
client: I've been thinking about how easy it would be to deal P again.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I mean, I've been thinking about, um, how I could actually set myself up the right way doing it the wrong way.
therapist: Sure. So what I'm picking up is-is that-that-that's a life that you know a lot about.
client: Mm.
therapist: And you can make lots of money and set yourself up well. What's the other side, because I guess when I talk to guys like yourself who have done time, often they're thinking about actually, mm, maybe life can be with different. So I'm wondering where-where you're at with the kind of thinking about—
client: Well, at the end of, you know, that last week inside, I was- I had that kind of, okay, what's next buzz? And, you know, it just doesn't work out here.
therapist: Okay.
client: I don't have a, uh, uh, I don't know what that is.
therapist: Sure. So life on the outside is pretty different than the kind of-
client: Yes.
therapist: -the expectation of life on the inside something?
client: Yeah, it's worse.
therapist: Yeah?
client: Yeah.
therapist: So tell me how you've been managing. 'Cause I don't know if you'd been back dealing? How have you been managing to-to-to—
client: I haven't yet, I mean-
therapist: Okay.
client: -the, uh, the offer's there.
therapist: Yeah?
client: Um, I don't know why I haven't said that I will yet but I mean-
therapist: Uh, tell me-
client: -it's there.
therapist: It's there and-and-and you've a lot of contacts?
client: Yeah.
therapist: You've been in the system, so lots of context. So this isn't a new challenge for you.
client: No.
therapist: So what stopped you over the last-- How long have you been out now?
client: How long have I been out?
therapist: Yeah.
client: Three weeks, one day.
therapist: Three weeks, isn't it?
client: Three weeks, one day.
therapist: So what's been there? What's it about that you haven't done in three weeks one day?
client: I don't know.
therapist: 22 days you've actually made a decision not to-to pick up your old life and continue on.
client: Um, I'd- I- you know, I kind of told myself not to, you know, just before I left. And then I'm just kind of with it and I don't quite know why. [clears throat] I dunno, if, uh, there's no real reason why I haven't yet. It's just that I don't- I just don't think it'll work the way I always dream it will you know, I see myself up like, whatever, if I do that again, the next leg is a long one. A real long one.
therapist: Okay.
client: And I-I can't go back there. There's no way I'm going back there.
therapist: Right. So the one hand you've-you-you could sit yourself up and-and take the risk, but on the other hand, you know, that actually it might not last?
client: No, never lasts.
therapist: Never lasts. Mm. You seem like a bit of a crossroads to me.
client: Yep. I've been in crossroads for 12 years.
therapist: Mm. But there've been times when those crossroads would be more sort of focused than other times.
client: Yeah. And- [crosstalk]
therapist: Yeah. And it sounds like maybe like-
client: -sort of opposite, yeah.
therapist: Yeah.
client: You know, we're in the middle, you know, and it's actually at the moment, I guess.
therapist: Yeah.
client: But I don't know. You know, that's quite clear that no fucking idea.
therapist: Okay. Okay. So—
client: Do you have an idea?
therapist: No. Well, I've-I've got lots of ideas, but I'm really interested to hearing your ideas kind of first though because you know, and there might be some things that we can work on.
client: Mm.
therapist: But I guess what I'm really interested in is-is you've made a commitment 22 days, drug-free. Haven't gone back into that lifestyle. What-what's keeping you, 'cause you're at the crossroads, you kind of just pause there at the moment. I'm not sure about this other bit over here. What keeping you in that place?
client: Fiona?
therapist: Yeah?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Tell me about Fiona?
client: She's told me that it's over if I do it. You know, I mean, she-- What tell you about, Fiona I mean she's been with me. She's the one who stayed through all the shit. And I owe her-
therapist: Okay.
client: -something.
therapist: Okay. So you've been with Fiona for how long?
client: 12 years.
therapist: 12 years. Okay. So she's stood by you then for the time, [crosstalk] but this time she said, it happens again I'm out of here?
client: Yeah. She's actually got the black and white line down now.
therapist: Okay. And it sounds like you're listening to that black and white line.
client: It's pretty she- you know, she could be pretty full-on.
therapist: Yeah, yeah.
client: Yeah, so it's hard to ignore that line.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I mean. And it comes with a whole lot of different rules, and you know, she's never been quite like she is now.
therapist: Okay. So something's changed in your relationship between you, yeah?
client: Yeah. I think she has. I don't think I have.
therapist: Okay. So what's Fiona want you from you?
client: She just wants me. I mean, she just wants someone to be there. Me. She-she remembers me and she wants- she wants him.
therapist: She wants him. So which him does she want, Daryl?
client: The one that, you know—
therapist: Does she want the- did she want the-the him that she fell in love with and saw great things in?
client: Yeah, that's the one.
therapist: Or does she want the-the-the-the him that's- that keeps on getting into trouble?
client: No, no. No one would want him. I don't want him. He's a fuckwit, right? She wants the one that she fell in love with.
therapist: Okay.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So what's it gonna take to reclaim this Daryl that she fell in love with?
client: If I had the answer to that, I wouldn't need to be sitting here.
therapist: Sure, yeah.
client: And I mean, I honest- I don't know, man. I don't know. I-I wish I knew somewhere I could start that, you know, could give it to her, but I-I can't. I-I don't know.
therapist: All right. Well, let's-let's just play with this idea a little bit, Daryl. So what did Fiona fall in love with? What were the qualities of Daryl that she said, "This is him"?
client: I was pretty romantic. I mean, I was pretty quite smooth, and, um, you know, I was on top of my game, like, she- and she loved it. And we used to laugh in the [unintelligible 00:06:45], you know? And just- it was always really sweet, and people used to say, "Oh, man, you two. You two have just got it," you know? And we lost it, so whatever that was, that's what she wants. We were young. How do you become young? Uh, you know, I'm old, and we'll keep growing old, but you know?
therapist: I know.
client: Like if I'm not careful, I will be.
therapist: Sure. Everyone will age, but that will happen on time.
client: Yeah, certainly.
therapist: Um, but that's okay. So-so it's she fell in love with this, the sense of fun, the sense of Daryl, and things have changed, but she's still with you?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah. And you're still with her?
client: Yeah, yep.
therapist: Yeah. So catch me up with the conversations you've had with Fiona about this crossroads you're at. You know, these 22 days, you haven't gone back, you've coming out and you're not back? You could pick up this dealing quite easily and probably some workout here tomorrow and get back into it.
client: You know what? She hasn't even talked about the dealing, like, she won't even broach that subject. That's how black and white she is. She's- she'll be- she offers suggestions, you know? What I could do, and- or I kind of go with that, but none of them are-- You know, it's lovely that she's really finding things, but they're not the things. I mean, it-- I started kind of placating her and making it okay to keep giving me suggestions, but like, I need to come up with something because it's like awesome love, but you know, not in love, and she's getting sick of it already.
therapist: Okay. All right. So-so back together, things are starting to get tense at home, and your relationship a little bit?
client: A little bit that. Yeah, little-little bit tense. Yeah, that's fair.
therapist: Yeah. Don't put words in your mouth. I'm sure if that is—
client: No, they are.
therapist: Oh, yeah? Yeah?
client: I mean, not like they have been because we've only just started on the new road, but I mean, yeah, tense is the right word.
therapist: Second, I'd like to talk, Daryl, about this all- whole idea, that's this crossroads idea, yep? So on the one hand here, you've got this 12 year history of being in the other system and done some time and being away from Fiona, but you're now back, sitting back together, and you've got some choice about where to go. So, in that 'where to go', what ideas have you been thinking about in terms of where this-this Daryl, non-dealing [crosstalk] guy—
client: Well, I don't know. I haven't got little, um, nuggets of where I could go. I've just got like this feeling that I should go somewhere.
therapist: Okay. Yep. So a part of you knows you need to go something different, but the direction doesn't seem to be that clear at the moment?
client: Yeah.
therapist: It [unintelligible 00:09:33] picking up?
client: Yeah. No idea.
therapist: No idea. Okay. So I'm wondering, you've been in the system a while. You're now 34, is it right from the pick-up?
client: [nods].
therapist: Yeah. So, you know, often at 34, guys start to think about being with a girl in their life and what's important. And-and you would have also been part- not as a guy, so they've actually made some shifts and changes and thought, "Time to move on".
client: Yeah. Well, um—
therapist: And now you've got—
client: Not many.
therapist: Not many?
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: But some.
client: Um, oh, I've got. Yeah, one. [chuckles]
therapist: One?
client: One.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Mm, yeah.
therapist: Yeah?
client: Okay, so, um—
therapist: Tell me something about that.
client: Well, he-he was- he was inside with me the first time I was ever inside, and now he's a drug counselor.
therapist: Okay.
client: So, he's the- he did it.
therapist: He did it?
client: I don't know how the fuck he did that, but, 'cause because he wasn't even a real addict, he was just-- Well, I mean, I don't know. He's very good with people.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Really good at talking, and, uh, but anyway, I don't know how he did it.
therapist: Cool. So how interested would you be to find out more information about how he did it? 'Cause I'm thinking about this is someone who you know, you've done time with, got a relationship.
client: Yeah, but I can't ever be a drug counselor.
therapist: No, I'm not suggesting you-- No, not about being a drug counselor, but about he made that transition from-from being involved in crime-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -to a transition about being in a different place.
client: Yeah. I think he would have found some higher power. They find-- I'm not gonna find one of them.
therapist: Okay, no 12-step higher power idea?
client: Yeah.
therapist: So that might work for him, but what might work for you?
client: I don't know. That's why I'm here.
therapist: Sure.
client: I don't know what that is.
therapist: Okay, so part of being here with me, and the work we might do, will be to find- try and find- search for that-
client: Okay.
therapist: -thing. Whatever it is.
client: Good luck.
therapist: Well, it's a search, isn't it?
client: Yeah, I don't mean to be rude-
therapist: No.
client: -but I do mean it's a big ask.
therapist: Yep, it is a big ask. So what qualities would you need to have to-to go there?
client: Fucking guts.
therapist: Guts? Yeah?
client: Is it a quality?
therapist: I think it is.
client: Yeah, I'd need some of them.
therapist: Yeah? So you're the sort of guy, Daryl, with guts?
client: Am I?
therapist: Yeah.
client: No, not yet.
therapist: Not yet?
client: Well, no I'm not.
therapist: Yeah?
client: No, I don't have that-that-that much courage.\
therapist: Yet you're sitting here with me today-
client: Oh, I have to.
therapist: -and-and-and you're talking about stuff.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Well, you're sitting here, and you're talking with me-
client: Oh, okay.
therapist: -about stuff that's-that's quite deep-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -in a way. Um, that takes guts. That takes courage.
client: All right.
therapist: In my view, it does.
client: Okay.
therapist: 'Cause you could've come in here and said-
client: It's a bit awkward.
therapist: -"Look, Ken, you know, I'll come in, report in, I'm outta here."
client: Ah, yeah. I could've done that
therapist: You could've done that, but you're not. So I'm wondering what's different? 'Cause you may have done that in the past, I don't know, Daryl, with other people like me, but-but sounds like something's different this time.
client: I'm older, you know? It's not as much fun.
therapist: Yeah?
client: I used to take the piss outta you guys-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -all day long. We all do, but-
therapist: Sure.
client: -it's not funny. I mean, and you're-you're a good guy, I imagine. I mean, in fact, you don't deserve my shit. I just-- I don't know. Good luck.
therapist: I kind of see a sense of sadness there when you have to kind of think about this.
client: Oh, sadness. You know, I don't wanna wallow, you know? You know, you've gotta take, you know-- You make your own opportunity in life, don't you?
therapist: Yeah.
client: I just never did.
therapist: Okay. So I'm interested in this idea, let's, uh-- Opportunities come and go all the time.
client: Do they?
therapist: They do.
client: All right. Not to me.
therapist: Well you said before you had an opportunity to pick up and start dealing again.
client: Oh, yeah. Oh, heaps of those opportunities.
therapist: And-and so-so-so there's opportunities- there's opportunities in one world, and I'm wondering about what might make it hard to see opportunities in a different world?
client: Yeah, well, the different world isn't offering me opportunities. The different world is offering me a night shift, and minimum wage, and, you know, nothing. So it's like, set-set yourself up, set your goal up, or, um, don't, and that's your-your pro-social living, and that's your, you know, old behaviors.
therapist: Sure, sure. You're in the system-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -you're not in the system. Pick up that, where is it gonna take you?
client: The system?
therapist: Yeah, what-what's gonna happen if you start dealing again?
client: Man, I've been fighting that system-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -and all it takes me back is to the-the inside-
therapist: Okay, okay.
client: -I mean—
therapist: So-So again, I'm-I'm wondering about this other world, and you're saying it doesn't look to attractive at the moment.
client: Well, I can't see it.
therapist: You can't se it?
client: You know what, if I knew what they'd look like-
therapist: Yeah?
client: -I-I might, you know, buy that.
therapist: Yeah? You just described to me how it looked like a minute ago.
client: Did I?
therapist: Minimum wage-
client: Oh yeah.
therapist: -night shift, petrol station.
client: Yeah, that's not much fun. That doesn't look very good.
therapist: Yeah?
client: Yeah, that looks really hard.
therapist: Yeah? It is really hard.
client: I know that's the right thing, uh, don't get me wrong.
therapist: Sure.
client: That is gut right there, going to a job you hate, going home, cooking yet missus a dinner, looking after your kids. I mean, that is-- That's what it real mean does, but I don't have that-- Th-those guts to do- to do what you do.
therapist: Sure. We talked about courage before and you've got the guts to be talking with me about this stuff today, and I'm wondering if you actually do have some courage to think about these ideas. I'm not saying that pumping gas at minimum wage is where you wanna go, but-but the guts to actually start steeping into this other world. I wonder if you do have, I'm-I'm-I'm just not sure.
client: I-- Hmm, maybe.
therapist: Maybe. You're not convinced at the moment, I understand that and, um—
client: No. You know, convince me because, you know, I kind of want to be.
therapist: Sure. Well, it's hard to me to convince you-
client: Right.
therapist: -'cause this is your life and this is your story, and you-you've got to walk your life and I can't walk your life for you. I only walk my. And so, but I can walk with you on this life to try and think about-- 'Cause I-I-- You know, I-I've no interest in actually you falling over and going back into-into a lifestyle a crime 'cause I know where it'll take you. And I'm hearing that with your relationship, where it's going to take your relationship too, [unintelligible 00:16:39] got the bottom line drawn pretty clearly.
client: Mm.
therapist: So it seems like what's gonna push in this direction, just tip that balance a little bit to give this other world of go? Because it is new, it's different. It means doing stuff, a lot of stuff actually that-that's kind of mundane.
client: It is the little things, yeah, like waking up, and having a cup of tea and sitting on the porch is kind of cool.
therapist: It's kind of cool?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Not part of on the wire?
client: No, you don't get to sit outside-
therapist: No?
client: -on the porch.
therapist: You don't. And who's sitting on the porch with you?
client: No one. It's morning, it's just me.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Birds, trees, yada yada.
therapist: Cool. So I'm picking up this world actually has the freedom to you to be your own man?
client: Mm, you know, maybe.
therapist: Maybe?
client: I don't-- You know, that-that was nice. If it was full of bits like that, sure, but I mean, you know, eventually you have to go off to your job and-
therapist: Yeah?
client: -you know, pay your-your wages, I mean your-your mortgage and-and-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -it's just massive.
therapist: Yeah it is. It is.
client: It is.
therapist: Absolutely massive. And, uh-- So, is there a challenge you're up to, to start creating some-some-some of that sort of world for Fiona? 'Cause I'm hearing that—
client: You know, people like me are unaccepted into that world though. You know? I've got-- I don't have qualifications. All my mates are in Australia working awesome jobs, mining for 160K a year, you know? Just being men digging holes. Like, if I could do that, yeah, all good but fuck, I have just come out of prison, I don't have any NCEA. I, uh, I had one opportunity and I fucked that because I can't do night shift 'cause I'm lazy. You know? Maybe the world is giving me opportunities and I just don't need them. Maybe I can't do that.
therapist: Sure. So what I'm hearing is, you're not convinced at the moment.
client: No, I'm definitely not convinced.
therapist: No. So what would convince you to-to make that shift? 'Cause I hear a lot of kind of-- And in this hard, like, y-you've done time and then once you've got a record, the employers- you know, we know, I know that. That's-that's not easy. You can't just wonder into a job, a high-paying job and go, "Pick me, pick me, pick me." I know that.
client: No.
therapist: You know that.
client: Yeah, I know.
therapist: So, um-- And-and maybe it's about small steps and first steps.
client: Yeah. I mean, yeah, it is obviously, it is first steps, but I mean, what's that? What's the first step into the pro-social life?
therapist: Well, you trying to get a job, maybe and get into some routine.
client: I just know if I get a job that I hate, I just won't do it.
therapist: Okay.
client: You know, I can make in an hour what I can make in a night or a week of nights. It's pretty-- You know, from where I'm from that a really-- You know, there's no decision at all, that's just like, what are you up to if you don't?
therapist: Yeah. I'm confused though at the moment because you're saying, "Yeah, I could make in a night what you make in a week," but you've haven't. 22-22 days-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -and you haven't done that. So-so tell me what that's about.
client: I just told myself I wouldn't this time and then Fiona said, "You will not" this time.
therapist: So you told yourself you wouldn't, so you're once you- you're the sort of guy that once you make a decision you're gonna go, you're staunch with that decision?
client: Yeah, even if it's the wrong one, yes.
therapist: Oh, it's a decision whether it's right or wrong-- It's not gonna be-
client: Yeah, but I'm that kinda guy.
therapist: Yeah, you're that kinda guy okay, so once you make a decision. So you made a decision that you're not gonna- you're not gonna go back to dealing?
client: Oh no there wasn't a decision to made, I just said, "I won't yet".
therapist: Yet.
client: Yeah, I said yet.
therapist: You're keeping the door open-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -at the moment, is what I'm picking up.
client: I hate that.
therapist: Yeah, okay, so that will be a call you-you've got to make.
client: Mm.
therapist: I'm-I'm not gonna- I'm not gonna make that call. You'll make that call, but there's a consequence of making that call, and there's big consequences more time probably and Fiona not being around. On the other hand, what I'm picking up is a call to-to do some- do some stuff that may not be racy and exciting and in the big dollars, but me being with Fiona and engaging in this transition into a-a different life.
client: Mm, yeah.
therapist: Yeah.
client: And we're still no closer.
therapist: No.
client: But I mean yeah it's there.
therapist: But we're talking about it.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So how much time have you been talking about this-
client: Oh, fuck.
therapist: -position?
client: With anyone other than Fiona? No time at all, I'd say for about 10 hours with you.
therapist: Okay-okay, so the fact we're even having a conversation about it, it's kind of interesting?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah, so I wanna summarize, Daryl, what-what I picked up so far and then just so I make sure I'm really listening to you well 'cause it's important, isn't it? 'Cause, you know, it's important you're listened to-
client: Mm.
therapist: -by people me. So what I'm picking up is-is-is that if you've-you've got this long 12-year history, you can make some big money or you can dealing, doing crime, that stuff, I'm-I'm picking up that Fiona's set the bottom line, is if you go back in that lifestyle, she's out of here, yet she stayed here for 13, 12, 13 years?
client: Yeah, 12, nearly 13.
therapist: Nearly 13 years, so and-and so-so she stuck with you, and I'm pick up that's important to you, um, and-and-and yet you talk about it, it just seems easy, this bit over here, this whole lifestyle.
client: Mm.
therapist: This other lifestyle over here though when we talk about, actually thinking about, you know, doing stuff, doing the stuff that-that everybody else generally does, [unintelligible 00:22:30] will gets on doing, it doesn't have that same kinda seem to excitement, and it doesn't seem to be a-a starting point for you over here.
client: Uh, that it-it does kinda seem exciting.
therapist: Oh, it does?
client: It does, because it's so different.
therapist: Right, okay.
client: And I'm kinda over that one.
therapist: Okay, you're over that one, okay. So, let's start to think about what might be the first step.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah, with while going in, I think you got a high steep.
client: Okay, I.
therapist: Yeah, a steep, you see before you had a mate who turned his back on offending.
client: Yeah.
therapist: And for him this 12-- You wondered that the 12-step stuff working for him.
client: Yeah-yeah, it does work for him.
therapist: Yeah, maybe that, I'm wondering the conve- the conversation with him that might be around actually how did he do it, and how did he stay without slipping back across the line, 'cause like-like get this crossroads you've got the path and go the other path and go here, so I'm wondering about conversation with him, what would it take to have that conversation?
client: Uh, ringing him.
therapist: Ringing him?
client: Mm, yeah.
therapist: Yeah. You seem a little surprised, I'm-I'm [crosstalk] wondering about, surprising face.
client: You-you know, it was a long time ago that we were inside. I just know that's what he's doing. It would be pretty odd calling but the- he'd probably be okay with it.
therapist: So possibility to call?
client: Possibility to call yeah.
therapist: Yeah there's possible.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah, okay, and Fiona's been pretty staunch.
client: Mm.
therapist: Is someone who actually who has some pretty clear ideas about where she wants you as a couple to go-
client: Mm.
therapist: -I get a sense.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Well, I just have to do what I'm told. I don't know.
therapist: Yeah, but I'm picking up though behind that doing what you're told, she's got some hopes.
client: Oh, yeah, I was being, um, chipping, I mean, yeah she has more hopes than me, you know.
therapist: So what will it take for you to start thinking about some of her hopes and sharing some of her hopes?
client: Um, like I do- I do but what it would take, you know, I mean, that's pretty freaking scary shit.
therapist: Yeah?
client: Yeah. And I would never admit to that.
therapist: You said before you're sort of guy that once you make a decision you're pretty staunch with that decision.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So if you made a decision to go there, it might be a scary as shit but again it seems that, uh, it could work if see it look, this is important, this relationship's important, let me go for—
client: Yeah, but my-when I made my decision to not do that yet like I was very clear I understood I know that picture. If I'm gonna make a decision to do this, I kinda need to really-really know what that is. You know, not only to talk I mean-
therapist: Sure.
client: -what is the whole plan to-to call-call up you know and say, hey bro, hey bro, uh, how did you do that? I mean, really? Is it—
therapist: Yeah. That's-that's what I'm thinking- I'm thinking actually. Here's someone that actually has made a different decision then, uh, it sounds like that's the pathway that starts over here and I'm wondering. I wonder whether you might have wisdom about what it's like to t-to tread that path.
client: Yeah, like, I guess I could be wondering that too.
therapist: So you know there's a part of you going, I was thinking in this place that's hard work.
client: Hmm.
therapist: And this is a pretty lonely road to-to walk by yourself. I'm wondering who else might be around you that might actually walk with you?
client: There's Fiona.
therapist: Yeah.
client: [unintelligible 00:26:37] getting out so what-what he did. Um, dad's only as mean. There's Fiona.
therapist: You know maybe they'll walk that road with you too.
client: Yeah, okay, uh, all right, yeah. All right.
therapist: There's a couple of people.
client: Yeah.
therapist: If you want to do that. It gotta be your call.