therapist: So, Rick, just in regards to your flatmate situation at the moment with Tristan. Uh, you know, we talked about how walking through this program and with the support of your parents and having some positive influence to help you through this. I just want to rethink a bit if you stay living with Tristan. What are the sort of pros and cons of that? What are the good things about living there, what are the not-so-good things about living there?
client: Oh, it's a nice place. It's close to work. It's good living with a mate.
therapist: Yeah. So, in terms of being supportive and a sort of support you're gonna need to make these changes.
client: Yeah.
therapist: What's your thinking around that?
client: That's the thing, isn't it? I am-- I don't know if it's the best place for me to be if I'm gonna make those changes.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And Tristan is a good flatmate.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I have no-- We're going in different-different directions now. He doesn't have the same kind of responsibilities I have and stuff, and so-- And I can't expect him to change his whole life around, just because I wanna change mine.
therapist: Right.
client: I just-- I don't know how keen I am to move in with my- with my aunty and uncle, though.
therapist: Okay. You're good to explore, but I just want to ask you about, how much does Chris-Christian-Christian know-- Tristan know about you changing your life? What does he really know about the changes you wanna make?
client: I sit down and talk with him, asked him for, um, for support and stuff and he's fully, he says fully he'll be there for me. But, like I said, he's, um, he's in a different place in his life than I am in mine.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: He doesn't have kids.
therapist: Right.
client: He doesn't-- I don't know if he can really understand what it means to me. Um, he's a good mate.
therapist: Okay. What are some of the pros and cons about moving in with whāna, moving in with your auntie and uncle?
client: The food would be good. Um, I get- I get support with-- my whānau is really supportive, but I'm- I'm worried about losing- I'm worried about losing my freedom. I'm worried about, um, about them taking over, or, you know what I mean? I have a freedom where I am now, I'm in charge of myself. That would probably be really good.
therapist: In terms of that freedom and in charge of yourself, and the changes that we're talking about, and building your own family, and to enable you to do that, where do some of that freedom stuff sit with re-engaging back with your whānau and your children, your partner? Is it something you're gonna wanna hang on to, or how you're going to manage that?
client: I don't wanna hang on to freedom if it this- if it means that I lose my kids. Um, I'm just, uh, I'm just worried about-- I'm worried about if I move in with family, that they, even if their intentions are good-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I don't know. I'll do anything to get my kids back.