therapist: So I get a sense it's a little anxious being here today and, uh, meeting someone like me, and, um, what we're gonna be doing today is-is inducting, but also I wanna talk about, um, yeah, the issues that-that have got you here and we need to do some sorting out around, um, yeah how serious you are to sort of sort those issues. So?
client: I don't really know what issues I need to sort.
therapist: Sorry?
client: I don't really know what issues I need to-
therapist: All right.
client: -sort. It's just a bit of cash.
therapist: Yeah.
client: So—
therapist: So first, it might be trying to sort out what are the important issues to sort out.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Yeah, that makes sense? Yeah? So how confident are you that-that, you know, you can sort out the issues related to, um, you know, uh, taking the money from your employer? And another thing, in your precinct's report, there were some issues around gambling, and some issues around alcohol use. So those seem to be important issues that are kind of getting out. So how confident are you that you can get those sorted in the nine months we've got?
client: Um, I don't think there is much to sort. I have a few drinks like everybody else my age.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Pokies are at the pubs for the thrills, it's no worries.
therapist: Yeah, yeah.
client: It's not an issue.
therapist: Yeah. See one of the things I'll be really interested in-in talking with you about is, um, yeah, what's-what's the, um, what's the worst thing that has happened in terms of pokies, in terms of you know behavior around the pokies, what's the worst thing that's happened?
client: Uh, I suppose when you've got no money in the pocket at the end of the night.
therapist: Yeah, yeah.
client: And some nights you do, so.
therapist: Yeah. So how often do you end up with no money in your pocket? Can be the times when you end up with money in your pocket
client: Well, I don't really keep track.
therapist: Yeah, yeah. So if we were to think back, say the last month, the last four weeks, how many times would you have gone down to the- to the pokies, the pub?
client: I don't know. A few times a week.
therapist: Yeah. Yeah.
client: I don't know. It's if you're at the pub, you're, you know, that-that you're out there.
therapist: That-that you're up for the money and-and then-then they slot you.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Okay. So-so thinking about this, say a couple times a week, you know, two or three?
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Yeah, yeah, yeah? So that's 12 times. So how many times would you have walked away with money in your pocket after, any out of the 12, what's your- what's your sense?
client: I don't know. A few times, probably when I have it, I might drink a drink.
therapist: Okay. Okay. So you're saying about 50-50?
client: Yeah.
therapist: 'Cause you have to understand the odds are about-- sort of-of tend to be about 25% on the 100, that-that's [crosstalk]
client: It's the unlucky ones.
therapist: Yeah, you might be lucky then. So-so what do you reckon like in terms of like you're saying you're not sort of sure if that's an issue, and that's probably something that we can be working with, uh, figure it is an issue.
client: Mm.
therapist: And, yeah, it might be an issue, I don't know if it's an issue at this point. It'll be interesting to sort of talk about that. But I'm wondering what happens, yeah, when-when you get on the pokies out there, they're certainly at the pub, pokies around? So what happens in your body when, um—
client: A bit of a rush, I suppose.
therapist: A bit of a rush. Yeah. 'Cause other people I have worked with say that, yeah, sometimes they get a bit of a rush, that somehow the rush takes over and they don't know when to stop. Not sure if that's what- if that's what it's like for you, but other people have told me that, so.
client: Yeah, I suppose.
therapist: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. So that could be an issue we could spend some time talking about here, 'cause obviously you know, you don't- you don't - you don't wanna be here, and then my interest now is just getting you o-out of the system, not getting you into the systems. So-so here, um-- how-how much do you think this is an issue for you, you reckon? The pokies and the gambling.
client: I don't know, I suppose it's lead me to be here, maybe. I don't know.
therapist: Yeah, yeah. Thinking about your friends, you know, how would you soft of think about your friends 'cause, you know, I guess you go out with your girlfriends and stuff.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Yeah, yeah. So, in terms of their behavior, like how did your behavior sort of match with their behavior? Are they much the same as you, are they different than you?
client: Much the same, bunch of party girls.
therapist: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Then, in terms of the pokies and stuff they much as they like doing the pokies so much as your doing the-- You know, compared to you doing the pokies?
client: Um, I don't know. I suppose they walk away a bit quicker than me.
therapist: Oh, okay, okay. Who's-who's-- What's your girlfriend's name, your best- your best friend, best girl friend?
client: Sarah.
therapist: Sarah, So what do you think Sarah would say?
client: I don't know.
therapist: What would she say about—
client: We'd just have a laugh.
therapist: Yeah, what would she say about-- 'cause she knows you pretty well. She'll-she'll-- she goes to the pubs with you probably and see you putting the money on pokies, what would she reckon?
client: Uh, no friends or friends should-- She accepts me for who I am.
therapist: Absolutely, and that's what you want from friends, isn't it?
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: You want that acceptance, absolutely, yeah, yeah. But won't you say, you know, friends also-- good friends also can, you know, call you on stuff too, can't they? Yeah?
client: At times.
therapist: At times. Yeah, so-so what you-- wha-what she might say to us about about- a-a-about your gambling?
client: I don't know. You don't have any money, so-- And that she-she'll probably be quite happy if I stopped.
therapist: Okay.
client: But, um, I don't know. She-she doesn't really discuss it with me.
therapist: Okay. But you owe her some money and you get the sense that-- Or I'm picking up, you get a sense that she's not terribly happy.
client: Mm.
therapist: Yeah, yeah, okay, okay. So Sarah might see it as an issue. And-and I guess there's a part of you also sees it as an issue, part of you, you know. Part of you may not, but a part of you does.
client: Mm.
therapist: So the part of you that does see this is-- as an issue, yeah, that the gambling sometimes can be out of control, you know, tell me that part of you that-that maybe knows that, uh, it's getting you into trouble and it's gone way-- just moved you off from that point, there have been some—
client: Um, I don't know if pfft-- maybe I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for gambling 'cause-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -you know, suppose in some way, I took the money for-for that but I don't know, you know? It's just a few dollars here and there and I didn't really think about it at the time, so-
therapist: Mm.
client: -I don't know.
therapist: Yeah, and-and in some ways getting caught might be a good thing. I know it might sound a re-really sort of strange thing to say, but I wonder if like getting caught might have been a good thing. Because you would have read the papers about other people's of-- you know. They're the hands that would turn on stuff and end up with gambling problems and big money. So I want- I want to hear much that it might have been a good thing that you got caught at this stage, and you got a chance to do some talking about it and working around some strategies to get it under control so it doesn't control you. What's your hunch about that?
client: I don't know. I-I don't think it would have been too much of a problem. I mean I'm not a bad person, I wouldn't have, you know, wouldn't have continued to steal. It was just at the time that I was going through a rough patch. I wasn't intending to make it a long-term thing.
therapist: Yeah. Yeah, so you're not a bad person. Certainly, I don't make judgments about people being bad people. So that seems sort of actually thinking about this, you sensed that you could've stopped.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Have you put on a kind of real hat, you know, you get a real hat here, you know? What-what's your hunch about that? Is it a kind of-- that kind of realization it's a bit of a smoke screen, what's your hunch?
client: I don't know, you tell me.
therapist: How about then your-your kind of hunch about that?
client: Uh, I suppose I didn't expect the-the money would've added up to what it did, so I guess, at the time, I- [sighs] I wasn't thinking of the reality of it, you know, building up, so-
therapist: Mm.
client: -you know, it did, so I'm here-
therapist: Yeah-
client: -so, I suppose—
therapist: -so, what did it add up to, at the end of the day? What are we talking here?
client: It's a couple of grand or something.
therapist: Yeah, yeah. It's a little bit here, a little bit there, so it then adds up, yeah? Yeah.
client: Well, that a little bit here, a little bit there is nothing I didn't work for. [chuckles] I worked [unintelligible 00:10:35] and I was getting paid $18 an hour-
therapist: Mm.
client: -$25, you do the math. [chuckles] And that's gonna support me?
therapist: Yeah. Okay. So-so, there's some-some questions you've got around some-some ways you, kind of, explained them. And then, as we work together, you know, we-- there might be some other ways we look at it and see it too, you know, that-that's part of working together. So, I'm wondering, how open are you to, you know, seeing this situation from lots of different angles?
client: I don't know. I'm usually an open person. [chuckles]
therapist: Yeah? Yeah.
client: Just provided it will help me deal with it.
therapist: Yeah, yeah.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Okay. So, what other things have you've been open to at other times in your life when you've been open to-to new ideas and being able to talk about stuff, that may be tough to talk about?
client: I don't know. I am just usually pretty open with people. It's a bit different here tonight and-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -just not knowing what to expect then—
therapist: Yeah, and-and, coming in, talking to a stranger, you know, and someone who can be honest to what you did, talking to a stranger, coming in this time, what do you sense about how you're doing so far?
client: I don't know. I suppose I'm saying that the money did add up, and that was enough for me to end up here, so-
therapist: Mm.
client: -I suppose I'm here for a reason. [chuckles]
therapist: Yeah. You know, like-- I-- And, some people wouldn't even, sort of, get in the door or wouldn't be as open as you've been today, okay, to an extent, so, you know, like I said, good on you, yeah. You know, being able to-- It's hard to come to a place like this and start to really open up, so, you know, you've just shown that you can do that. Yeah.
client: I didn't have a choice. [chuckles]
therapist: Well, you have a choice about what you open up to me about. Absolutely, you have a choice about that, yeah. That coming, being on sentence, no, you don't have a choice about that, um, well, you have a choice, 'cause, I mean, you can choose not to come, and you'll be breached and get to head back to court.
client: Mm.
therapist: Um, but you do have a choice about how you are here when we meet, and what-what we talk about here. So, um, you know, so you do have lots of choices within that. And, my sense is you're, sort of, you know, a young woman who will make some good choices about that 'cause you're not a bad person, and you know that.
client: Mm.
therapist: Yeah.