therapist: Hi Carrie, thanks for coming in today.
client: Thank you, my doctor [unintelligible 00:00:05]
therapist: What brings you in?
client: Well am having, um-- I've been an ongoing problem with smoking and trying to quit.
therapist: So, you'd like to give up those cigarettes?
client: Oh I've been wanting to, for a long long time in years.
therapist: Yeah, so then it's, um, right now, uh, tell me a little bit about, um, right now at this point in your life why it's so important to quit.
client: Well I have a 15-year-old daughter and she's highly against it. And, um, health issues, you know, I'm getting-- not getting any younger and I have asthma and I have chronic bronchi-- bronchitis and, um, I'm having a hard time breathing when I exercise and not to mention it's socially unacceptable really.
therapist: Like being a leper in a leper colony right now to be a smoker.
client: Actually it's like being a leper in a non-leper colony.
therapist: 'Cause you can't find a leper colony anymore. So, um, so it-it's really important for you to be a good mum-
client: Right.
therapist: -and model for your- for your daughter who's at this age where 15 would be a really common age at which she might decide to smoke.
client: Right and, um, she's been expressing, you know, she walks in and she's like shhh and it's embarrassing for her friends and, um, and in-in turn, it's embarrassing for me.
therapist: Okay. So, you-you wanna look good, you know, and she's proud of you I'm sure anyway and then this just would be an added benefit. Yeah.
client: Right right, yeah.
therapist: So, and then you mentioned quite a few things about medical problems. So, um, you mentioned, um, asthma, um, acute bronchitis did you say—
client: Oh and emphysema the beginning stages of emphysema.
therapist: Oh my goodness. Okay. And so, and that-- yeah, that's very-- that's really scary beginnings of emphysema, I'm sorry to hear that.
client: Thank you.
therapist: Well, I mean that's-that's, you know, tell me about when you were diagnosed with that.
client: I really couldn't tell you, um, I remember when my daughter was like five, um, I was-- it was humid out and I have a problem with humidity-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -you know, for breathing, um, and, um, I was trying to stick my head out the window to gasp for air-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -and my daughter became so frightened that she went next door to our neighbor and called 911 and it really—
therapist: Smart girl.
client: Yeah-Yeah she's very intelligent, yeah. Um, and they came they took me, you know, on this chair type of thing in my robe and my daughter was in sure panic, um, thinking she's was gonna lose me and she's 15 so its been 10 years since then and I still I've tried this Chantix-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -unsuccessfully, uh,--
therapist: Tell me a little bit about what happened with the-the Chantix.
client: Well, um, I don't know if it's my lack of willpower but, um, also had ve-very bad side effects from it so.
therapist: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Wh-What sort of if-if you are willing to talk about what kind of side effect—
client: Um, I had nightmares-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -nausea-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -um, stomach problems, and agitation. Yeah.
therapist: Oh really. You know, and I've heard that too, Carrie, that people especially you know those are, um, some people seem to have a lot of success but when people do have the adverse side effects they are really pronounced like the ones you just described.
client: Right and it didn't stop me from smoking as well, so that's, uh, [laughs]—
therapist: Want the good [crosstalk] no good right? And how long ago was that that you—
client: Um, that was about two to three years ago.
therapist: Okay, all right.
client: I tried it a couple of times.
therapist: Okay.
client: I would get a, um, a new prescription refilled thinking, "Oh I could try it this time."
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And I had friends that it worked for-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, and there is a support group that they have that you can go online or call-
therapist: Okay.
client: -but of course I didn't do either but-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -um—
therapist: It just didn't fit for you to do the online.
client: No. Yeah.
therapist: Okay. So, um, but you gave it a good try and it was just not a good fit for you like you-you really listened to what your body told you like nightmares, nausea, I mean those are really bad things.
client: And agitation really-
therapist: Oh yeah.
client: -because, um, you know, um, being at my age I'm going through the menopause stage which is part, you know, you'll have that anyways and then having 15-year-old that causes a little bit more stress so you don't need any extra stress, I don't think, as far as I'm concerned.
therapist: So, it's already piled I'm thinking up for you, you don't need anything else so you're looking for some relief and not something to make you feel worse.
client: Right, exactly.
therapist: Um, have there been some times in the past where you were able to quit smoking completely?
client: Only when I was in the hospital. [chuckles]
therapist: Okay.
client: And even then I-I snuck out and had a cigarette, you know.
therapist: Okay. So, what's the longest you've ever gone without a cigarette including being in the hospital?
client: Oh God, I would have to say, uh, three days.
therapist: Oh, three days. You know, that's a long time and I felt, you know, that's a pretty long time to go without smoking and I would imagine, I think that's pretty good.
client: But it was not really by choice, it was by, um, the situation I was in, I wasn't able to smoke so, yeah.
therapist: You were forced to-
client: Right.
therapist: -not smoke?
client: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
therapist: What did you notice during those three days when you weren't smoking?
client: Um, constant thoughts about smoking.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, uh, just as, um, a chocoholic craves chocolate-
therapist: Mm.
client: -I was craving my cigarette.
therapist: You were [unintelligible 00:06:04]
client: Yeah, exactly. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Um, and the first thing when I was able to smoke, I didn't care if I smoke my brand or anybody else's brand, I just wanted that cigarette.
therapist: Okay.
client: The nicotine is the addiction.
therapist: Right.
client: And-and also the-the psyche thing, you know, with-- I mean, I wake up in the morning, I want a coffee with- I want coffee with a cigarette.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, if I'm stressed, coffee with a cigarette.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I mean, just cigarette. Um, so it's always, like, it's-it's a duel kind of problem I think-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -you know-
therapist: Mm.
client: -I'm finding it to be.
therapist: It does, uh, it does a lot of positive things for you.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: And it sounds like it's paired, like a coffee and a cigarette. I mean, you know, probably hard to think about, "How will I have a cup of coffee without a cigarette?"
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: You know, and, um, that's actually, yeah, that's a-- I think it does become very paired with lots of different things. And, um, you might already know this, and so let me know if you do, um, because of the way cigarettes you're describing it and accurately is-- it is really what we call an almost perfect drug in a lot of ways. And-
client: Oh, really?
therapist: -it will do whatever you need it to do at any given time. The downside is-is it-it kinda get, it gets in the end with the health.
client: Oh, yeah.
therapist: It'll-it'll take a good usually 10 years off your life minimum.
client: As they say, my aunt was like, "Put another nail in your coffin," you know.
therapist: Okay. What do you think when she says that to you?
client: More on kind of cocky and I say, "Well, you know, Aunt Kathy, you were my role model, and back in the day, um, I used to envy and watch and think you were so sexy, and all the movies, the old movies."
therapist: Glamourous.
client: Yes, yeah. And that's what I associated with at the time and now it's almost, I'm ostracized for it.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: So, it's kind of like a double-edged sword.
therapist: So, and I would- I would-- it really is because it wasn't like that 20 years ago.
client: Mm.
therapist: It wasn't like that for sure 30 years ago.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: So, it's become harder to be a smoker. You light up a cigarette-cigarette and people make assumptions about you.
client: Oh, yeah, and you have to travel like 10 miles-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -in order to have a cigarette. And not say you're in a situation and you only have a 15-minute break-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -you can't even finish your cigarette, um, because you have to be back within a certain amount of time and it takes you, like, let's say seven minutes to get to the place where you can smoke and seven minutes to get back-
therapist: Mm.
client: -and a cigarette, um, for me takes five minutes to smoke.
therapist: Okay-okay. So—