therapist: Hey, Mary. I wanted to bring up to you, um, that your battery died last night. So, can you tell me what happened?
client: I don't know, and I still don't wanna charge it.
therapist: So, it's something you just aren't willing to do?
client: No. I got a lot of stuff to do, I don't need to charge it.
therapist: So, it's not really a priority for you right now, to be charging it?
client: No.
therapist: Okay. Um, and do you understand then the con-consequences of-of what that would be?
client: I guess so. I don't know. I-I-I honestly don't care what the consequences are.
therapist: Okay. Um, would it be okay if I do share you what will happen if you don't charge your battery.
client: Sure. I'll listen.
therapist: Um, you will be getting violations for that, and then if you get so many violations, I mean, we'd have to write a warrant for your arrest, which is looking more of, um, detention time.
client: Whatever.
therapist: And that's still doesn't seem to bother you.
client: No. I just-- I don't care.
therapist: Okay.
client: It really [unintelligible 00:00:58]-- I don't care.
therapist: Um, so I know that you, you know, you know the consequences of it, and yet you're sharing with me it's just not a priority for you at this time.
client: Nope.
therapist: Okay. You know, that is your choice. I mean, I-I-I can't make those choices for you, it is something that you decide to do. Um, so with that being said then, these will be the consequences. I'll have to read the-the violation for you.
client: Yeah, whatever. I Know you got to do your job, but I don't care.
therapist: Okay. Um, any questions about that? Any questions about kind of the next steps from here?
client: I mean, whatever happens happens. I'll deal with it when it happens.
therapist: So, your confidence that you'll be able to deal with possibly going back to detention?
client: I mean, I'll just deal with it when it comes.
therapist: Okay, and it sounds like you know that it's probably coming then?
client: Yeah, I guess so.
therapist: Okay. Well, you know I will be back later. If any questions would arise, we can always talk about that then. Um, otherwise, again, I will have to write a violation, and, um, if you have any questions or need anything from me, please let me know. Um, otherwise, again, I'll be back later today.
client: Okay.
therapist: All right.