therapist: Okay, David. So, why don't you take a rinse, and how are you feeling?
client: Hmm, pretty good.
therapist: Would you like to-
client: Check it, yeah.
therapist: -check this out? What do you think?
client: Oh, that was fixed really nice.
therapist: Yeah.
client: You got rid of that bad-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -discoloration that was there.
therapist: Yeah. No.
client: I like that.
therapist: It went well. Good. Excellent. I did notice quite a lot of staining, actually. I'm wondering what are your thoughts about what might be related to that.
client: Mm. Well, the usual suspects, smoking, wine, coffee-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -all of the above.
therapist: Any thoughts on considering quitting smoking at this time?
client: Yeah, I've thought about it. I'm just-- It's not my cup-- I-I-I hear it from everybody, and, uh, I've tried- I've tried before, didn't work. I get it all the time.
therapist: Okay. And it's like here I am one more person, the next- the next doctor who's saying, "You need to quit smoking, David."
client: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [unintelligible 00:01:13] hmm.
therapist: Mm, and I'm sorry, that's not how I mean to come across at all.
client: Yeah, I-I-I know I'm not an idiot and people know that smokers are, you know, "How can you smoke today?" [coughs] It's just not that easy to, uh, quit.
therapist: Mm-hmm, and if it was as easy as the doctor is saying or your partner-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -saying-
client: Uh, who wouldn't be?
therapist: -you have to quit.
client: You'd have to be a real fool not to do it-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -if you [unintelligible 00:01:34] was gonna make it like that.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I-I just hear it every day.
therapist: Yeah. And what's been your past experience with smoking? Tell me-- Can you tell me a little bit about kind of how the role it plays in your life, how long you've smoked?
client: I've smoked for 40 years, since I was 14-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -and quit a couple of times, off and on in my 20s, but, you know, it's been consistent. And I can't see myself changing now.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: No matter what kinda talk I get or what they come up with.
therapist: It sounds like almost you've tried a lot of things that are out there and it's not something that you're—
client: Not gonna worked for me.
therapist: Yeah, yeah.
client: No.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I know cold turkey is probably the only thing that's ever gonna do it to anybody that's done it. Mysel- My group, it's been cold turkey-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -and then they fight it, but [sighs] it's my choice-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -and I don't like lectures about it.
therapist: Yeah. And it really is your choice. You're absolutely right-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -that nobody has the right to tell you what to do. Um, can I ask? If you were to-- Uh, if there was to be a situation where you decided, "I must quit," what-what would that situation be?
client: Hard to tell 'cause I already had open-heart surgery. That didn't do it.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Prostate cancer, that didn't do it.
therapist: Right.
client: I don't know. I really don't know. I just don't really want it.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I just-
therapist: So, this is something that you-you-
client: -have to-
therapist: -pretty much see yourself doing for-
client: Yeah, a while, quite a while. Yeah.
therapist: Yeah. Okay. Well, I really appreciate you being willing to even talk about it. And I get that right now, this is not something that you wanna pursue. Would it be okay if I brought it up in our next visit? 'Cause I-I know that you've said you don't want a lecture, but on the other hand, I am- I am concerned.
client: Okay, yeah. I could go for that. I-I, uh, I'm always open to some-- you know, to listen. Yeah.
therapist: As long as I don't talk too much?
client: Yeah. [laughs]
therapist: Okay. [chuckles]
client: [unintelligible 00:03:34] options. I had some-- I had my surgeon just go like, "You're- you're--" like, "Why do I even keep you as a patient?"
therapist: Hmm.
client: He's good, though. [laughs]
therapist: [chuckles] You're glad to keep him as a doctor?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah. Well, and, David, honestly, wherever you're at, we'll work with it.
client: Okay.
therapist: Um, and so thanks for- thanks for taking a couple of minutes and talking about smoking.
client: Thanks, doc.
therapist: Okay.
client: Okay.