therapist: Kia ora, Ricky, welcome back.
client: Kia ora.
therapist: Good. Are you okay today?
client: Yeah, yeah fine.
therapist: All right. So where we left last time, you were going away to think about a few things and to, um, develop some sort of plan of action. How'd it go? What were you up to?
client: Actually, it's been pretty good. I, um, I talked to my mom, which, uh-
therapist: Right.
client: -which is a big deal. And, uh, she was excellent. Um, I knew she would be. Um, and, uh, I've made an appointment for the, uh, for Stopping Violence and [unintelligible 00:16:15]
therapist: Good to know, excellent.
client: Um, I've cut down on the drink. I haven't stopped drinking, but, uh-- Yeah, so, uh, it's okay.
therapist: Things are looking pretty good.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So you've rung your mom, had a chat to her.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Any other whānau members? You talked about your brothers and sisters last time.
client: Uh, I didn't speak to my brothers and sisters this time, I just spoke to my mom, but, uh, she, uh, she suggested that I go and stay with my, uh, auntie and my uncle. Uh—
therapist: Here in Christchurch?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Okay.
client: I'm not sure.
therapist: No?
client: I'm not sure, I'm thinking about it.
therapist: What are you not sure about?
client: Well, I'm not sure if I want to live with my auntie and uncle. [chuckles] Um, I think, yeah, I'll probably need to. I think probably living with, uh, with my mate in his flat is probably not that helpful.
therapist: Okay. Just sort of interested, when you rang your mom and, um, told her what's happening, how difficult was it to talk about the issue of violence and being violent towards your partner?
client: It was terrible. It was really hard. Uh, I think probably the hardest person to talk to about it, my mom. My, um, my old man, um-- Yeah, it was hard.
therapist: We-we talked about, uh, last time that this is hard stuff and that, um, we are prepared to kind of do the hard yard. So you've gone away, you've talked to your folks, put it out there about your issue of violence? Um, I'm thinking about, uh, with-with Tristan and the whole alcohol issue there. So it sounds like to me if you've- you've started to put quite a bit of stuff in place.
client: I try.
therapist: Yeah. What does it tell me about you as a man, as a father, as someone who wants to get moving?
client: Well, I hope it tells you that, um, that I'm a good bloke. That I'm a good dad. That I really- that I'm really serious. I am really serious.
therapist: Grand. You talked a little bit about, uh, you'd really like to get back with Kristie?
client: Yeah.
therapist: And-and-and your kids and developing that whānau. Have you had an opportunity to get in touch with her and—
client: Uh, yeah, I talked to her about it. We talked a little bit. Um, and she's not completely convinced.
therapist: Right.
client: Um, but we'll see how it goes.
therapist: Okay. So what do you think you're gonna need to do to show her and others, uh, to convince them that you are serious?
client: I need to, um, I need to see all these things that I've started to put into action, I need to see them through to the end.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Well. I need to- I need to, uh, to show her that she can trust me. That I'm serious about it.
therapist: Yeah.