therapist: Hi, Emily.
client: Hi.
therapist: It's been a while.
client: Yeah, it's been a while.
therapist: This is something new.
client: Oh, oh, yeah, the—Yeah
therapist: You got your lip pierced. How long ago did you get that done?
client: About a month.
therapist: Hmm.
client: Yeah.
therapist: What made you decide to get-get a lip piercing?
client: Um, I don't know. I just felt like something different. I was getting bored and, I don't know, it's kind of nice to stand out a bit, I guess.
therapist: Hmm.
client: Yeah, change.
therapist: Yeah, and it looks nice.
client: Thanks.
therapist: Um, I guess, you know, as your dentist, I have- I have a couple of concerns about lip piercings, oral piercings. I wonder what have you heard about how having an oral piercing can affect your-your teeth or your gums?
client: I don't actually, really. I-I mean, I'm sure that it might push on my gums or teeth, but I don't know how much it will impact that much. I've pretty good teeth. I don't know.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I don't really know [unintelligible 00:01:04]
therapist: You do. you have beautiful teeth as I always tell you-
client: [laughs] Thanks.
therapist: -every time you come in.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Um, I mean I have had some patients with oral piercings and they can erode some of the gum right, um, just right there at the front.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Um, so that's one-one thing, and the other is, um, I do see fair amount of chipped teeth-
client: Oh, yeah.
therapist: -just from contact with it. I wonder what are your thoughts about that?
client: Well, I definitely don't want it mess with my teeth. I know I kinda already have low gums to begin with, like you've been telling me for a while, and I have to flo-floss, which I-
therapist: Yes, flossing.
client: Um, which I'm not doing but, um, yeah, I guess, I don't really wanna wreck my teeth 'cause-- Yeah, I didn't really notice any of the chipping.
therapist: There's nothing yet.
client: I guess I'm not paying attention to it.
therapist: Yeah. There's certainly been-- There's no problems and you, as you said, only have had it for a short time.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Um, what would- what would make you decide, "This is something that's not right for me?"
client: I don't know, I guess if I started to see that it was actually causing a problem, then I might.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: But for now-- I mean, I just got and-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -and it looks pretty cool.
therapist: I guess that it does.
client: Yeah, I kinda-- Yeah.
therapist: Yeah, it looks nice. So, you want to monitor it and-and-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -really watch-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -the effect? Okay.
client: Yeah. I guess if I really start to see a problem-- I mean, this might not last forever, but my teeth, I'm hoping-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -will kind of stick [unintelligible 00:02:30]
therapist: Emily, you said it so well it-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -the-the piercing might not last forever, but your teeth really are-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -hopefully forever. So, okay, well thanks for-for talking about it-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -with me, and also before I do the exam, you know, I'm always on your case about flossing, so maybe we can take [inaudible 00:02:46]-