therapist: So, thank you for coming in today.
client: Yes.
therapist: How are you feeling today?
client: I feel great actually.
therapist: Yeah? Good.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Good.
client: I feel good.
therapist: And so you did your clarifications, value clarifications-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -and what are your top five?
client: Yes. It was a good, uh, experience for me. It was different. It was different than usual. There were several things that were different, and, uh, the number one value that I put was self-respect. And I-I don't even know if self-respect has ever been in my top five let alone my number one.
therapist: Really?
client: Yeah. And, um—
therapist: Do you have any idea why that is?
client: I do have an idea, I think, why that is. Um, I think that there's been a few things that have happened recently and something that really came to my awareness, when I visited with my family, is that I have consistently through my whole life, probably, put other people first. And I have consistently, uh, almost not even considered myself in the equation. It was, uh, kind of sad in a way, at the time that I realized it. Uh, I didn't realize how severe it actually was, but I was kind of glad that I realized it because I feel like it's never too late to change-
therapist: True.
client: -and I feel like I can- I can, uh, respect and value myself just as much as I have other people. I know that's important. And I feel like when I do that, I'm a better person for other people as well.
therapist: Mm-hmm. By not putting yourself on the back burner so much?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Because I get stressed, I get resentful, I get overwhelmed and, uh, out of- out of alignment, I guess, out of sorts.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And I can't be the best- the best me possible.
therapist: For someone else?
client: Yeah.
therapist: For your family?
client: For myself or for someone else, either way, yeah.
therapist: You think it is so much of a fact that you put yourself on the back burner that you were neglecting yourself, or that you were putting others so much before you that you just didn't even think about yourself?
client: I-it's almost-- Like, I think that some people might not even think that I put that first, but in my mind and my emotions, I was carrying concern about what other people think, and I was letting that concern dictate my actions. Instead of letting my own values dictate my actions, I was letting what I thought other people wanted me to do to dictate my actions.
therapist: Wow.
client: And that's something that I had done for so long, literally since I was a child, that I didn't even know I was doing it.
therapist: There's so much of your-- Part of your paradigm?
client: Yes, yes.
therapist: So, do you think sometimes you weren't even aware
client: Not aware at all. Completely unaware. Totally unaware, yeah. And so to me, I feel like it's a celebration. I used to, uh, moan and complain about my childhood and about all the things that I didn't get to have, and all the cruel, mean things that people said and did, and I felt-- I feel like I had this aha moment where I realized that I could be my own parent, and I could give myself the things that weren't given to me, now. I can give myself a voice. I can give myself an opinion. I can live like that, if I want to. Nobody's stopping me from it, only me.
therapist: Yeah.
client: So, that's what I want to do.
client: Mm-hmm.And it's the first time in my life I haven't felt guilty for saying that.
therapist: The very first time that you can remember?
client: I would say so, yeah. I don't know if I've ever said that in front of people and not felt the least twinge of guilt for it. [chuckles]
therapist: That's not a selfish thing.
client: No-
therapist: Right.
client: -it's not, it's really not.
therapist: Cool, that's great.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah. And so you felt you came about this change, and-and-and how does it make you feel?
client: Well, it makes me feel jubilant. It makes me feel joyful. It makes me feel hopeful. It makes me feel like I count, like I matter. Uh, it makes me feel like I'm going to be able to do what I want to do with more joy and more passion, and less dread and a sense of responsibility, because one of the things that kind of happened along the way I really didn't notice, is that, um-- Like, let's say for example I like being a teacher or I like being a teacher or I like being a counselor to a certain degree but because of all the shoulds and all of the sense of responsibility and all of the caring about what people think, I started to lose joy doing things I actually enjoy doing.
therapist: Because you're- felt so obligated.
client: Yes, because it turned into an obligation instead of just really really a sense of like you know passion you know. My passion is gone completely. I don't know I'm just happy to, I feel like I got back in touch with myself. It's like I was like lost for a while and now I'm like back again, yes, now I remember why I wanted to do this or like why this is important to me because it is actually one of my values to be and help, but it just has to be, uh, balanced.
therapist: Yeah, is that on your top five also
client: No, but um, the other ones I have on there, uh are, number two, inner harmony. For the same reason, like I feel like I need to harmonious within myself before I can be harmonious with other people.
therapist: You get peace with yourself?
client: Yes, and then I put family happiness.
therapist: That's very good.
client: Yes, because I think that when I'm at peace with myself, uh, that automatically contributes to my family happiness. When I am unhappy with myself, I bring my unhappiness to my family.
therapist: Sure.
client: Uh, yeah, when I don't have self-respect and I am only giving my family a say on who I am and what I should do, I'm angry at them, I quarrel them.
therapist: You feel resentful.
client: I resent them, I really do, when I am in the mode. But when I just say, "Hey, I'm a person of this family and I deserve this much time and energy and attention and just more than anybody else," I don't care, you do what I do I do what I do life goes on [chuckles].
therapist: Right.
client: And then I have health and achievement, and to me, this one on achievement says a sense of accomplishment and to me that kind of goes along with what we were talking about earlier like I think I can show up and be a teacher and be a counselor in many different, uh, capacities. I could be your- I could be- I could be a teacher and I could be a really bad teacher. I could still be a teacher you know, I could show up an I could just do a really poor job and I could go home and I probably could keep my job for a while, it wouldn't be the first time right?
therapist: Right.
client: But I don't feel good about that.
therapist: You don't feel fulfilled.
client: No.
therapist: Like you've done anything helpful.
client: Right, right.
therapist: It's because you showed up and you gave out
client: It's not enough for me to just show up and get my paycheck. That doesn't, I don't feel fulfilled so it-it, that's the way I see it going together with the helping. It's not just about helping to like look good or to exhaust myself or do what I think I should do but to really give something needy, something substantive, something real.
therapist: Meaningful.
client: Yeah, meaningful, even if it's-it's small.
therapist: Sometimes it's the small things that really count, too.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So all of these things put together feel like right now at this point in life, that it is really healthy change for you, like where you are right now.
client: Yeah. Yeah.
therapist: That's great and is there anything else on the list you felt like it was coming close to some of the other top five that you had or something similar?
client: Well, one of the things about this list that kind of surprised me is almost every time I have done this list, uh, creativity and freedom have been really high up there. And it didn't even make it to my top five. It was in my top 12.
therapist: Uh-uh.
client: But I think the conclusion that I came to is that I can be more creative and have more freedom if I have inner peace and self-respect. Part of what- part of what binds me, part of what takes my freedom away is when I just explain all over the place and I don't give any attention to myself. Part of what steals my creativity is when I'm- my mind is reeling around in stress and I am not- I can't even hear myself. I can't even hear myself think. How can you be creative if you can't even hear yourself?
therapist: All the chattering.
client: Yeah, exactly, to me the creativity comes from the silence, comes from the quiet. It's literally-- I can just be in silence for even if for a few moments. It's amazing the ideas that come to me so quickly and so easily that would take me hours to figure out if I'm stressing.
therapist: Thank you so much for sharing.
client: Thank you, thank you for listening.