client: So, uh, I guess the issue is that, um, you know, my doctor seems to think that my-my blood pressure's a little high, but I really don't think that there's a problem. And you know, I eat really well. Um. And, you know, she suggested that, um, I watch my caffeine but really, caffeine is not a problem for me.
therapist: Okay. Um, but we were talking a little bit earlier-- earlier in our conversation, you had said that you did feel like it was maybe causing some of your agitation. So it's a little bit of, I'm not sure of what-- Um, so where are we? Did-did you-- do you feel like you do have some agitation out of coffee, or is it just no problem at all?
client: Well, you know, sometimes it makes me a little jittery and, you know, I have to go to the bathroom more frequently than some of my co-workers, but-- And-and working, um, in the hospital, they don't really look so highly on-on going the bathroom frequently. But you know, it-it keeps me awake, it keeps me aware, it-it makes me more able to like, you know, do my job better. And so I really don't see that it's a-it's a real issue.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Um, you know, and-and-- I mean, maybe my blood pressure is a little high, but—
therapist: Yeah. So let me see if I had this. So y- so you got some positives, the-the awareness, and then you feel kinda on your game?
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Um, and then there's some negatives with, um, you know, your-your co-workers, um, that they don't, you know-- then your boss may not want you, you know, checking out-
client: Right.
therapist: -on the hospital floor, you know, for frequently.
client: Gotta stay on, yeah.
therapist: Yeah, yeah, and then the blood pressure thing. Does that sound about right?
client: Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, and sometimes, like I said, it does kind of make me a little jittery and, um, I don't know. I-I-I'm not- I'm not as happy and relaxed as I normally am. But you know, I-I really like it, and-and like I said, it makes me more aware of what's going on and-and I'm-- I-I feel like I'm much more observant.
therapist: Yeah. How about frequency? Do you feel like you're good on how much coffee you're drinking?
client: Yeah. I have about four cups a day.
therapist: Okay. Okay. And that feels about right to you?
client: Yeah. I mean, I've-- I mean, it's the co-workers that-that work at night. Gosh, they bring in a carafe.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And, uh, I-I can only imagine-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -what-what their bodies are like.
therapist: Yeah, yeah. What would happen if you-- if you looked at, maybe reducing that with that habit? Would that get rid of maybe some of the things that are problematic?
client: Reducing it, like-- what do you mean?
therapist: The number. Just the number.
client: Yeah, yeah but, I mean, how-how much are we talking?
therapist: I don't-- you tell me. I mean, um, you're-you're drinking four a day.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Um--
client: You're probably-- you know, because I-I gotta have that morning cup, I really-- you know I really like waking up and-and that whole ritual. The, um-- you know, making the coffee and-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -I just really like the flavors.
therapist: Yeah.
client: So I-I definitely don't want to give that up, but—
therapist: I gotcha. Okay.
client: Uh—
therapist: So that one's important.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Yeah.
client: And then, of course, you know, working a 12-hour shift, I-I really think that, you know, the afternoon to keep me going until the evening is-is a really good idea too.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I could probably get up the mid-morning.
therapist: I think that's great.
client: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
therapist: I think so. So you've identified one of the four that might-- you might be willing to-to try-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -for a while to-to let go of. What do you- what do you think of that?
client: I think that does sound all right.
therapist: Okay.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Good.
client: I think I could do that.