therapist: Hi, Nick. Thank you for completing the CRAFFT questionnaire. I also appreciate you sharing some information about yourself.
client: You're welcome.
therapist: sI see from the questionnaire, did you have got in trouble while using alcohol? Can you tell me more about that?
client: Well, a friend and I would snuck out one night to go to the park, and we got a couple of beers from his house, but the cop came by, and so we threw them in the bushes. He was originally gonna give us a curfew ticket but ended up not to. Luckily, he didn't see the beer.
therapist: That must be really scary.
client: Yeah, it was. If my mom would have found out, she would've killed me.
therapist: I understand. So tell me, how often do you drink?
client: Well, I've only tried drinking once or twice.
therapist: I'm gonna make sure I understand. You have tried drinking a couple of times, and you almost got in trouble once. Did I get that right?
client: Yeah, that's right.
therapist: As your provider, I'm a little concerned about your health. Drinking alcohol could harm you, and I would like to share some information with you. Is that okay?
client: Well, I'm not sure if this information is for me, since I've only been drinking once or twice.
therapist: I understand. You're just experimenting with alcohol. Then, how about if you share with me what the effects of alcohol are?
client: Well, all I really know is that it's not good for you.
therapist: Are you surprised what that might be true?
client: Yeah, and a couple of my friends drink too.
therapist: Well, you might not be drinking that much, and other kids are also trying alcohol. I'd like to share with you the risk of using. Alcohol and drugs could really harm you because your brain is still changing. It also-- you're very high risk for becoming addicted. Alcohol and drugs could also interfere with your role in life and your goals, especially in sports, and it could cause unintended sex. How do you feel about this information?
client: I really didn't think about how this would affect me playing sports.
therapist: Based on your reason for your visit today, I feel like you really wanted to play soccer, and you have great goals about that.
client: Yeah, I would like to play soccer in college.
therapist: That's a great goal to have for yourself.
client: Yeah, I would also like to get scholarships.
therapist: Scholarship will really help you achieving your goals.
client: Yeah.
therapist: I would like to share with you these materials to show the risk of drinking at younger age. I also wanted to encourage you to think about these risks. What do you think about that?
client: Well, I will take a look at it, and I'll definitely read it, and I don't wanna become addicted, and I would like to continue to play sports as long as possible.
therapist: It sounds like you're in the right track, looks like you care about your health, and you care about your goals in life. I'm here to answer any questions.
client: Thanks for all the information.
therapist: You're welcome.