therapist: Mr. Johnson?
client: Yeah?
therapist: Uh, I'm here to talk to you about, uh, your cholesterol and the, um, medicine your doctor prescribed.
client: Uh, I talked with my doctor about my medicine. That's his job.
therapist: But well, it's my job too, uh, to-to help you understand how to use your medicine and, uh, give you information about getting the most benefits from it.
client: Well, to be honest with you, I'm not even certain I'm going to take the medicine. Now, I know I got high cholesterol, I've got to get that down, but on the other hand, this medicine can cause some severe muscle weakness and I just can't afford that. I'm a truck driver and I haul those heavy boxes in on the dollies and I just can't afford that, so you know.
therapist: So your-your-your doctor told you that if your cholesterol remains elevated, you're at risk of stroke or heart attack?
client: Yeah, down the line, but-
therapist: Okay. Well, the-the side effect is something that's very, very rare, it's not really something you need to worry about, and the risk of stroke or heart attack is much worse.
client: Well, right now it's the muscle weakness that-that I'm concerned about, and that's, uh, you know, that's the present, uh, I've got to do my job.
therapist: Well, I-I-I understand that. Um, but like I said, it's very rare. If you feel some muscle weakness, you'll let your doctor know. It's not permanent, okay? Yeah, it won't get to the blood- it won't get to the point where it affects your job—
client: Well, you know- why don't you just give me the medicine, I'll take it home and I'll think about it? But you know, I'm worried about my job.
therapist: You- you really need to take it, and-and like I said, the-the muscle weakness is rare. If you feel muscle weakness, just let your doctor know. He can take you off or switch. It's not permanent.
client: Sure. Fine. Just—
therapist: It's-it's not permanent.
client: Whatever.
therapist: Okay? So a stroke or heart attack is much worse, so make sure you go ahead and pick up your medicine as you're on your way out and, uh, one-one every day to get your cholesterol down.
client: Okay, sure. Fine.
therapist: Okay.