therapist: Hi, Scott.
client: Hi.
therapist: Hi. You were saying over the phone, uh, you want to talk about exercise?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Okay, alright. Where would you like to start with that?
client: Well, I'm, uh, I-I used to work out pretty good. I-I would go to the gym several times a week. I had kind of a schedule, um—
therapist: That's really a lot. Very good.
client: Yeah, well, you know, it really-- At-at one time, I was running-- I ran a half marathon. I was really into it, and, uh--.
therapist: Wow.
client: Well, and I-- But I was working at a different company, where I had a little bit different schedule, a little more free time than I have now, so I just don't have the time like I used to.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And I-- And really, it's kind of an excuse, I guess, cause I-I could probably make the time, but it's-it's easier to just keep working or-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -just being in bed or whatever.
therapist: But that goal of the half-marathon, you know, it's really important that you were willing to put all the time into getting ready for it, which, from what I've heard from other people, is almost like a job in and of itself.
client: I-it was. A-and it was huge for me cause I'd never really been a runner, you know, but it-it was very motivating, and-and—
therapist: What'd you like about it?
client: I don't know. I guess there's kind of an adrenaline rush to it. Kinda almost like, you know, uh, kind of a high, I guess.
therapist: Uh-huh.
client: So yeah-- That's-- I-I really enjoyed it. And I-I liked the feeling that I was doing something good for myself. I liked that, too. I-it kind of-- It so-- It gave me a little bit of self-esteem, I guess.
therapist: I-it a-almost, um, feels like you identified as being a runner, like an athlete?
client: I-I subscribed to the magazine a while.
therapist: Do you really?
client: I did.
therapist: [unintelligible 00:01:40]
client: I let-- I lit it on fire but I-
therapist: Okay.
client: -I did burn for a time.
therapist: Got into the culture?
client: I got into the whole culture. I was-- I-I felt as good as I’ve felt in many, many years. And now I’ve kind of let that all slide, and-- Well, I had a foot injury, too, which kind of started the whole problem.
therapist: Okay, alright. Cause it’s tough, it's really, it is. I mean I’ve, um, I’m sure you’ve been told before by whomever, uh, diagnosed your foot injury, but if not, let me know if it gets so tough on your body [unintelligible 00:02:10] let me know. So--
client: It-it is. And I-- it-it may be why I can’t really run again, but I can certainly, you know, ride a stationary bike-
therapist: Okay.
client: -and do all the other things in a gym that you can do when you’re not running, so, it just nakes you to [unintelligible 00:02:23]
therapist: Oh, and yet and at the same time you know your body well enough, and you-you’re willing to pay attention to your doctor’s advice about the running, right now, for you, not the best thing. Um, so, riding a stationary bike. Um, what else do you like to do that's cardiovascular?
client: Um, well, um, I like-- The bike is pretty good. Uh, even the uh, you know, the kind of a rolling machine is okay. And the uh, the elliptical. Any of that’s fine. I-I really don’t, uh-- I don’t dislike any of it. Kind of once you get into the rhythm, yeah, it’s fine
therapist: If you were to pick one of those, which one do you enjoy the most, um, would be most likely to do?
client: Probably the elliptical.
therapist: The elliptical. Okay. Yeah. [unintelligible 00:03:07] like kind of almost like running.
client: Well, it is.
therapist: [chuckles].
client: It is without any of the impact, so it is true.
therapist: Okay. And-and what do you- do you-- Some folks, you know, [unintelligible 00:03:18] put on music, kind of- kind of.
client: Yeah, I do headphones.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I got my headphones, and I got my, uh, kind of [unintelligible 00:03:24], if you know what I mean
therapist: Okay. Get your rocking out, running on the elliptical playlist.
client: Yeah
therapist: And, um, so you were-- You said that you’ve been going several times a week, which is really an extraordinary number, I-I think it’s four, five times a week?
client: Yeah. I was going literally every other day, you know. And then, some days I would, you know, I’d run, and I’d go to the gym the next day, so I would-- I was very-- I don’t really feel it necessary to get back to that level, but I need to do something cause I’m doing nothing right now.
therapist: Nothing. Okay.
client: I should-- Or next to nothing. I walk to the grocery store or whatever’s handy when I have time, but yeah.
therapist: So what ideas do you have about initially just getting started, and what-what would you do [unintelligible 00:04:13] ?
client: Well, if I could just get myself over there once, 'cause usually that’s the hardest thing. It’s just going there. So I think that's-- You know, I’ve thought about it a little bit, I think I just need to make that first trip over there and just kind of to take it easy that first time. Just show up 'cause I think that’s really what I need to do. I justt need to go over there.
therapist: What would help you do that?
client: Um, knowing that my schedule isn’t gonna be too crazy that day where I could spare an hour or so, and-and just go do it.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And then I-- [unintelligible 00:04:41] kinda nice [unintelligible 00:4:42] gonna be troublesome.
therapist: [unintelligible 00:04:45]?
client: Um, I don’t know. I think- I think the time has just been the biggest thing, you know, and-and I-I guess the motivation really hasn’t been there. I mean, you know, it’s not like- I don’t really have a goal. I don’t really have a, you know I don't, other than maybe reducing my waistline, you know, I don't really have a-a set number like I'm gonna run a marathon and you know.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: You know, so I think the just running off the playlist. I-I guess maybe if I made a goal would helped too.
therapist: Mm-hmm- mm-hmm. So that-that-that half marathon was, uh, a very specific concrete thing and you could envision yourself, and you're ready for it and the day of and all that kinda stuff.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Um.
client: Plus there's people who have done that countless times and you can go read what their-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -regimen was so you get feedback too. And then [unintelligible 00:05:37] did this from this day and so on.
therapist: So sometimes-- almost sounds like, um, your feedback would be, uh, useful to you. Like some immediate feedback in terms of like, um, like [inaudible 00:05:53]
client: Yeah. Maybe.
therapist: [inaudible 00:05:55]
client: That might not be be a bad idea. [inaudible 00:05:59]
therapist: [inaudible 00:06:01]
therapist: -somebody there and, you know, hooking up with somebody.
client: I think that'd be great. I-I never have really found anybody that like to exercise with the pace that I wanted to. They were all either going way too fast or not even moving at all.
therapist: Okay.
client: So it's kinda hard to meet up with somebody that can kind of maybe kind of give you a push [unintelligible 00:06:38]-
therapist: Okay.
client: -might be a challenge.
therapist: There might be something [unintelligible 00:06:43] because you're such a social guy. And so to be able to be exercising and be talking and enjoying yourself- you like the music too, right?
client: Yeah, that's right, well I-
therapist: And if you arrange to meet somebody there, you're very good at, uh, you know, uh, keeping the agreement.
client: Okay, that's a great idea I hadn't thought of that-that's- I hadn't really, uh, I-I kinda dismissed that early on, I hadn't really even considered that, yeah.
therapist: And in for right now it just be, you'll be happy with getting there one time.
client: If I could get there-- I know if I could get there-- if I could pick, you know, uh, these are the days I'm going to go to the gym and I know these things last time.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: So if I- if I could-- I mean, I wanna get there three times a week.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I wanna get there on Saturdays or Sundays and Tuesdays and Fridays, or something like that, then I could probably [unintelligible 00:07:34]
therapist: And days that you know of on your less rigorous schedule that you're more likely to succeed [unintelligible 00:07:40] I really like how you're picking like three days a week instead of some days a week.
client: Right, yeah. Well, it's just not-
therapist: Very clear you understand the whole idea of giving yourself a day off in between.
client: Oh yeah, yeah, it doesn't do any good to just try to injure your- injure yourself especially when you're a bit normal like me.
therapist: Okay, yeah, I know that, yeah, yeah. Okay, so. So, um, so are you sure you wanna try to start out with the- that initial [unintelligible 00:08:07]
client: You gotta get over there.
therapist: When you find someone to go with, great, if not, you get your own [unintelligible 00:08:12] your own music and uh, I'll be- I'll be trying just to-to see um, what is like for you, having actually done that [unintelligible 00:08:20]
client: Very good.
therapist: Yeah, okay.
client: Thank you.
therapist: Thanks.
client: All right, bye-bye.