therapist: Hi, Sal. Thanks for coming in today.
client: No problem.
therapist: I saw that your doctor made the referral and, um, and I really appreciate you taking the time to come and make that appointment.
client: Yeah, it's-it's a bit of an inconvenience I'd say, but I'm here though.
therapist: So you made it in here-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: - and do you have a sense of-of what some of the doctor's concerns were that led her to refer you?
client: I don't know, something about changing my life even more. You know, the smoking's been changed, and now it's, you know, cut down the drinking, get rid of those extra smokes, get rid of my dog. I don't know what else have to do.
therapist: So your asthma has been acting up and there's a lot of stuff, not just the asthma going on?
client: Yeah, there's a lot of stress too. My wife's still on maternity leave, she's not getting paid, she's with the baby right now. And I'm the only person that's working right now, and plus I got to change all these things that are going on in my life.
therapist: Mm-hmm. Almost—
client: Yeah, it's a lot.
therapist: Almost overwhelming it sounds like.
client: Yeah, yeah, it is overwhelming. It is.
therapist: Well, we have about, I guess, 15 or 20 minutes together and I wonder, would it be okay, if we took a couple of minutes and just kind of looked at all of the different things that are going on for you and maybe you can let me know, what would be the most helpful to spend-spend some time on?
client: Yeah, it just feels like everything's all over the place but I guess we got to start somewhere.
therapist: Okay. Well, one of the things that-that we use are these-- it's kind of like a worksheet and it's an agenda-setting worksheet basically.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: So if you were to-to list all of the different things that people around you are saying that you need to work on or you need to change, what would some of those things be? And, Sal, just because we write them down here, it doesn't mean that you have to change them.
client: Okay.
therapist: It really-- You're in the driver's seat, so it's just to kind of put all the cards on the table, so to speak.
client: Okay. Um, okay, that sounds good. As long as I'm not changing anything and we're just kind of putting, um, I guess, pen to paper or something.
therapist: Yep.
client: Um, okay, so my asthma.
therapist: Okay, so asthma is one.
client: Yeah.
therapist: What else?
client: Um, the fact that they want me to get rid of Oscar, that's-that's my dog.
therapist: So your dog, and-and the doctor's saying the dog's—
client: Well, he's-- Yeah, he's saying it's a main-- It's a main contributor to my asthma problems.
therapist: Okay.
client: Which I don't- I don't- I don't- I don't buy it and I can't just get rid of him like that, but it's something that's there.
therapist: That's pretty shocking to be told that you have to get rid of your dog.
client: Yeah. The dog has been there before my wife. I know I've had him longer.
therapist: Hmm. So that's a huge stress right now?
client: Yeah. Yeah, it's- it's a big stress, it's like my best friend, so that's one of the important things. Also, I guess, cutting down these last cigarettes I've been working on.
therapist: Okay, so smoking and-and I'm working towards quitting completely sounds like that's a goal for you?
client: Um, finances is a problem right now too.
therapist: Okay, so money.
client: Time, I got to come to all these appointments and I'm taking time off work, which obviously is the money factor, right?
therapist: Right. Right, right. So the appointments and time.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Um, and some of these things are kind of related to each other I think we're already seeing.
client: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, there's something going on. And, um, also my drinking, I got to cut down my drinking too.
therapist: Okay, wow. So there's a lot happening right now, Sal. Anything else that that's concerning you?
client: No. It's just overwhelming when you see them everything they're, you know?
therapist: Right. Well, so where would you-- I mean, if you-you had to pick somewhere, one or two kind of high priorities or-or things to talk about in our time this morning, where would you wanna start?
client: I think- I think the thoughts about the dog has been definitely bothering me, that's been one.
therapist: Okay.
client: And, um, my-my asthma is out of control too. So maybe those two.
therapist: Okay, and those are ones that are pretty related to each other-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: - sounds like. Okay.