client: It's good.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Um, another thing-- Wait, what, I had something, it's just [inaudible 00:00:03] that I wanted to ask you, um, now a lot of my friends have quit smoking. They're getting like ostracized, but, you know, I tend to, like, gravitate, you know, towards-- Like my ex-husband smokes, you know-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -so I find it like acceptable in that regard.
therapist: You bond other smokers.
client: Mm-hmm, yeah.
therapist: That's very common. I mean, you go where you know, um, no one's gonna look down on you.
client: Yeah.
therapist: And you're instant friends.
client: Yeah, we share-- "Okay, oh, a smoker, let's go out and have a smoke together," yeah.
therapist: And now a total stranger will give you a cigarette-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -whereas like, you can't go up to him and say, "Hey, can I have some of your McDonald's French fries," and take them out—
client: I like that piece of jewelry, can I? [laughs]
therapist: Right, yeah, but with cigarettes, there is a sharing. You don't see that with any other drugs?
client: Right. Right, yeah. You can't have my stash. [laughs]
therapist: You can't, no, not one of mine. So, um when are you thinking you might want to do this?
client: Um, you know, I guess I'll have to like, you know, get all of my information together.
therapist: Okay. Do your homework.
client: Right, do my homework and set up my like to have everything available to me.
therapist: Okay.
client: And then maybe set up another appointment with you.
therapist: Okay.
client: And maybe I don't know if-if that's like something that you'd be, you know, willing to do with me is to- help me set a date.
therapist: Sure.
client: And then you know, the next time I see, see progress, or maybe write-- have like a diary or something, I don't know.
therapist: Okay. Yeah, no, all those things are good. I mean, I think you know, the will- picking a quit date has been found to be really effective. And, um, uh, I know you had talked earlier and then we'll end in just a couple minutes, but about, you know, like, the willingness or the readiness and most-- a lot of people, a lot of my clients have shared with me that when they woke up that morning, they truly had no idea that was going to be their last cigarette.
client: Oh, really? So they didn't have an exact date, they just decided.
therapist: No. Or- or some of them didn't have an exact date, but m-more importantly, was they-they just didn't know that was the day.
client: Oh, they didn't realize-- They didn't look at the calendar.
therapist: Right, right. It's just like you-you-you-- Some people pick a quit date, like January 1st is still the most popular quit date—
client: And-and wait, I'm sorry, but—
therapist: There's a smoke update coming up.
client: Oh, yeah. [crosstalk] And you know what I've never done that.
therapist: It's for the cancer society.
client: That's coming up in November-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -that's cool I'll have to find out about that.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Because it's like people who will start and say, "I'm going to stop drinking at New Year's Eve. After midnight, I'm not gonna drink."
therapist: Yeah.
client: That seems to be like, uh, a false setting up, you know, like, come on.
therapist: Actually, you would be amazed how many people do it.
client: Really?
therapist: Yeah, yeah, they really do, and smokers. Yeah, and drinkers, they do, yes. Yeah.
client: Or, like, you know, setting up-- but what is that that they say? Um, you know, like, it's- it's the terminology, you know, with all the anxiety and letting go, you know, like I'm gonna [crosstalk].
therapist: Like a new beginning.
client: Yeah. Uh-huh, uh-huh. Yeah.
therapist: So, for you, it's your, you know, it sounds like you really want to be prepared.
client: Right, right.
therapist: And yet, on some level, you know, that it's gonna be a lot of hard work for you because of, you know, you've already known how anxious you get about a stash-
client: Right.
therapist: So if you have a stash Nicorette gum if you decide to use it, I mean, you'd have to have other stashes, you know.
client: Yeah, and you know, another thing, uh, uh, you know, it's so so bang, but the weight gain is like—
therapist: That worries you?
client: Uh-huh.
therapist: Yeah. So, so if-if your doctor says it's okay with the Wellbutrin, one-- uh, we see very little if any weight gain-
client: Oh, really?
therapist: -with the Wellbutrin, yes.
client: Oh, that's awesome, to know too.
therapist: Yeah. And, um, the same with the Nicorette gum, because it- nicotine is an appetite suppressant.
client: Right, right. Just like [inaudible 00:04:06] Or your chocolate and all that.
therapist: Yeah.
client: So just switching my addiction. [laughs]
therapist: If you will. And that's if you decide you want to try a replacement therapy and that's what we call it and it-it kind of sounds from what you've described with your fear about you know, what it would be like of the withdrawal and everything like that. W-why you don't have to do it that way, you don't have to go cold-cold turkey.
client: Yeah, God, I don't think I could.
therapist: Yeah.
client: You know, I mean like I said three days was like-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -three years, and all I could think about I was like obsessing about it.
therapist: Yes. Yeah, yeah. So I think that- I think, I'm just a really big advocate of w-whatever is gonna enhance the quality and the length of your life. And if somebody becomes addicted to nicotine go- gum, God bless them. They're still gonna live longer, you know what I mean?
client: Yeah, yeah.
therapist: So—
client: Yeah. That's true.
therapist: So, we'll do that so we'll-we'll talk about the hypnosis a little bit more, you know, you'll talk to your doc. Um, you'll do your research, you know, about programs and stuff, I'll give you any information I have and we'll take it from there. But it's sounding like the quit date might be coming up fairly-- like within the next two, three months.
client: Okay.
therapist: I, uh, mean that's up to you.
client: Yeah. And I mean and that's-that's a reasonable thing- [crosstalk]
therapist: You get to decide.
client: -I don't feel like I'm like you know, it's gonna be-- I think gradually getting my- wrapping my brain around it will help, you know, before I just do, you know.
therapist: Yeah. Is it appealing the thought of quitting with a group at the same time?
client: You know, I always love, um, I've been in other group therapies-
therapist: Uh-huh.
client: -and the feedback is really nice and the support-
therapist: Okay, yeah.
client: -system is really good.
therapist: Okay. So, that really sounds like something we can do.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So, that would be can- the Cancer Society. So, we can look into that.
client: All right, great. Good. Great.
therapist: All right. Well, I appreciate you coming in. We'll set up another appointment and, um, get our resources together. We'll take it from there and—
client: And thank you for all the information. I appreciate it.
therapist: Oh, you're welcome. My pleasure, thank you.
client: Thank you.