client: Hi.
therapist: Hi, Deborah. How are you doing today?
client: Good, I'm doing really good.
therapist: Yes, um, so you did do your Values Clarification Sheet. Is there anything that you'd like to talk about that you discovered?
client: Yeah, I really like doing this, and, um, I-I rated health as my first-
therapist: Oh, so it's your first?
client: -uh, value. Yeah, because I really value physical and mental health, um, spiritual, emotional. Everything as a whole package, I guess, health. Um, and I'm working on, um, a certification to become a fitness trainer. Cal State [inaudible 00:00:40] there's a like extension program. I've been doing that for the last five weeks. I have a final exam coming up, like, Saturday. A little tense about it, I guess, but, um, I'm looking forward to, like, doing it, and I gotta wait for my results. Then, I got into an internship.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, but it's kind of exciting, a different career path in my life. Being an office worker for so long is getting boring too-- physical activity, health, in that respect.
therapist: So, health being your number one, um, which is kind of pushing you into this new direction, as far as you being a prior officer worker? You're doing something that you're actually living to do.
client: Yeah, I like being active. You know, if I could, um, be more adept to tennis, and I would love to do something like that coaching people how to play tennis, but I don't. I know enough about the game and play it, but I-I don't think my skill level would be high enough to actually coach other people but—
therapist: Now, have you done this sheet more than once?
client: Yes, I have.
therapist: And then, has health always been number one for you?
client: It's been in the top. It's been up there, yeah. I don't remember if it's always been number one. It's probably definitely been in the top three. Uh, yeah, because I've had problems, um, with inner harmony, I guess in different stages in my life, so I don't get that. This time I put it at number two.
therapist: Inner harmony is number two?
client: Yeah, it's just funny how it came out that it wasn't in the top 12. But then when I look at it again it had something to do with, um, peace, uh, inner peace or something or something in there.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And, um, I put that as a higher priority, or top of my value list.
therapist: So, would you like to express more on the inner harmony part of how that affects your life?
client: Yeah. Um, since I've been practicing yoga, and since I learned how to teach yoga, that's been something that I've been, um, coming to terms with more, that I feel like I have a lot more inner harmony. I'm more at peace with myself, and in-in the quiet times, and if I'm meditating.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, I really feel like-- yeah, I feel like really good about myself.
therapist: So, yoga, is that based on the number two, like inner harmony? That's where that comes from?
client: Yeah, that's part of it. Yeah, and then just feeling like, um, I don't have to please other people either. It's not a selfish thing to put myself first. And, uh, that's something I've always tried to do, make other people happy, please other people, and-and also put myself second, third, fourth, or whatever it is. And I always thought, "Well, that's the way a good person should be.They should always put other people first, you know. And then there's times for that, you know. There's something going on, and you wanna go out of your way to help people, and you say, "Well, my needs aren't so important right now." I think that is okay to do once in a while. As long as you know- you know that you're not really, um, doing anything detrimental to yourself while you're doing it. And you realize, "Well, I'm just-- I'm really helping this other person a lot, and it gives me satisfaction."
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Not out of a sense of, uh, you know, "I'm obligated to this person."
therapist: Yes, yes, yes. So, basically, reflecting on how you felt before about you were coming second, third, and fourth. Um, it was- it was really a problem, you know, like, how could you be so, you know, selfish, and think about yourself when-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -the reality is inner peace and inner harmony is based around, you know, self-self worth, and you know, self-- and-and dealing with-
client: Self love.
therapist: -self love.
client: Yeah, mm-hmm, yeah. [crosstalk] And that it's not selfish.
therapist: Yeah that's not selfish. And so you feel as though you can help, you can be of help to others, um, just as long as it's not detrimental to yourself. It's true.
client: Yes. Yeah. Um, then, and but also service, that's third because I really do enjoy helping other people. Being there for other people, you know, and-and if it puts myself out. Like I have my brother, his-his daughter, and his granddaughter they come over and, uh, I slept on-on the air mattress and, uh, me with my mother and my dad and my sis-- my-- his daughter in the other spare room that I have.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And I do that, but I think, well, it's one night or it's two nights that I have a guest. I could sleep in my bed all the other days. [unintelligible 00:05:54]
client: So, you know, even if it's a little inconvenient for me, or my house gets messy, or my kitchen is a mess, or whatever they don't pick up after themselves it's okay. You know, I'll live. You know, it's okay, it's not a big deal. Yeah. Before it was wisdom, because I really, that's, um-- it is high on my list and it might be higher if these other things weren't here.
client: But I like I enjoy learning and experiencing different cultures going, um, to different places in the world and then just also being around people that live in the community that are from other cultures. And I think that brings a lot of wisdom. And just also being open to, uh, differences. And then like today, Election Day realizing that something might happen, uh, in the Congress or the Senate, that's gonna be sort of against my values but if it happens, it happens, and I have to deal with it and-and be at peace with myself with about whatever anybody else is doing I still have to have that inner peace within myself.
therapist: And in the sense of you saying in your words, you'll live.
client: Right. Mm-hmm.
therapist: So, live, um, having that as a priority, um, do you feel as though, like you said before you'll live, but you know that you're able to look at, okay, these are my values, you know, and you're able to acknowledge [unintelligible 00:07:30] values.
client: Yeah.
therapist: And learning the differences of the different cultures that brings you wisdom.
client: Yes. And school learning in the classroom and outside of the classroom. Where I've been in different Native American communities, reservations, place I spent two months in the summertime really, uh, learning about the cultures is a beautiful place to be, there's a lot of wisdom. And, uh, fun, pleasure, fun, satisfaction-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -enjoyment. I think it's intertwined in a lot of things. It's fun to learn about pe-- other people, other cultures. it's fun to have the inner harmony. I think that- I think that was an all-encompassing thing about life. The part of it is to experience pleasure. Yeah.
therapist: So pleasure being your number five.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Okay.
client: And when I think of the flip side of that, uh, um, I-I know there's gonna be pain, disappointment, upset in my life, um, too that I accept that and that's part of joy.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: True joy comes from knowing it's not always gonna be happy. I'm gonna- I'm gonna be bummed out sometimes.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I'm gonna be disappointed, I'm gonna be injured or whatever.
therapist: So you've taken that into account that-
client: Absolutely.
therapist: -things may happen in life.
client: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
therapist: It sounds as though your list is like definitely a story. I-It kind of attracts you in the beginning as far as your health and the number two was being service. Number three. Uh—
client: Inner harmony.
therapist: Inner harmony was number two, and having that peace of then to allow yourself to help other people or to serve-service.
client: Right.
therapist: Not being, you know, whatever you did for others. That being, um, as far as, like you said within yourself, that you won't be able to find, um, problems with helping other people. And, uh, that's when service which is your number three or number four, which has been wisdom. You learning different, you know, cultures and having that broad range of-of just opening your eyes and seeing the world in a whole another scope.And then five which being pleasure, which is also okay, I do see the whole world and I know that within myself that I'm able to, you know, accept that I will have things coming out of me as far as, you know, not being, you know, uh, it's like, okay, things might happen. You're gonna get bummed one day but finding joy and pieces [unintelligible 00:10:21]
client: Yeah.
therapist: Well, it was nice talking to you.
client: Yeah, it was nice being here and having you listen to me. Encouraging me was okay.
therapist: Okay.