therapist: So, what brings you here, Bob? What's, what can I do to help?
client: Yeah. Yeah, well, the only reason I'm here is 'cause my wife thinks I've got a problem with smoking. I've been smoking all my life and, uh, six months ago, uh, she thought, she got into this health kick, right? And now everyone who smokes is evil. And, uh, so that's why I'm here just to please her, get her off my back and—
therapist: So, you're not too happy to be here. This is the last thing that you want to be doing this afternoon.
client: Yeah. That's an understatement. I mean, I'm supposed to be at work right now, too, right? So-
therapist: You've taken time off you, it's costing you time and money being here.
client: Yeah, yeah. I'm only here because my wife forced me to come, you know. Like this has come to a head six months of just nagging me, relentless every day, because she was able to quit smoking and now I have to quit.
therapist: So, let me ask you this, Bob, what are some of your wife's concerns about your smoking?
client: Well, she's concerned about my health and she cuts out all these articles from the paper about second-hand smoke and—
therapist: Wow, that she's been showing you and making you read.
client: Yeah, I've got to read this. That's my reading assignment for breakfast and I want to go out and have-- We used to go out and have a cigarette together at the table. Now I have to go outside in this weather, you know, what's that about? And she used to smoke more than me and now she's like holier than now?
therapist: So, you're pretty angry about it. It's pretty outraging that you're forced to change your whole life because of a decision she made six months ago.
client: And she's got my kids on this against me, you know, my son and my daughter, they're, it's like, they're ganging up on me, you know what I mean?
therapist: So, from your perspective, do you see any consequences to your smoking?
client: Well, the big one of course is how it's affecting my wife and the family. Like my dad's 85, he still smokes. I mean, yeah, you know, sometimes I thought of quitting, but I mean, I don't know. I don't know if I can-- I don't know if I can quit.
therapist: So, let me make sure I understand kind of the whole scenario 'cause there's a lot of pieces to it. Your wife is on your case and your kids are ganging up too. So, you're sort of isolated, you're put in a corner and you're being told this is something you have to do, you have no choice in the matter.
client: Yeah.
therapist: You have a few concerns about your health, but that's not really the driving force. It sounds like it's most of all that it would be nice if things just went back to the way they were before she quit smoking and that all of this stuff wasn't something that you had to deal with anymore. Does that pretty much sum up--?
client: Yeah. Yeah. I-I'm just, I don't want to lose her or my family over smoking.
therapist: I get the feeling that your relationship is really important to you. That you would do anything.
client: Well, yeah, I mean, we've been married over 25 years, and uh, we've never had any major problems. Like this is-- this is the first problem. I don't even really see it as a problem cause we used to both smoke and I was trying to accommodate them by smoking outside, but it's feeling like we're going like this and I'm just concerned, like if this keeps going, like.
therapist: So, it strikes me that the way that we're talking about it, it's like it's all or nothing. Either you keep smoking the way you are, things continue to go downhill and get worse, your wife gets more and more on your case, or you put your cigarettes down starting the moment you walk in the door tonight and never pick them up again. It's almost like one or the other. It strikes me that as well there might be some middle ground here that it took you a long time to learn how to be a smoker and maybe it's going to take some time to learn how to stop smoking.
client: So, I can actually do it that way like gradual taber?
therapist: There are some medications and some different approaches that we can use that aren't so abrupt. Recognizing that it-it's going to take some time and practice to get to where you might want to be.
client: I wish my wife could have come today cause she's feels after like, just stop like right away. So do you think she could come with me at a future appointment or something and she could hear that message?
therapist: If you wanted to bring your wife along, I'd be more than happy to talk with both of you.
client: Okay. I'll have to talk to her as well because their schedule changes from week to week, she works shifts, so I'll call you back tomorrow and we'll set something up.
therapist: Okay. That sounds good.
client: All right.
therapist: Thanks for coming in.
client: Okay. Thanks.