therapist: Jean, it's good to see you again.
client: Hello, doctor.
therapist: So, what's been different since the last time we talked a week ago?
client: Well, I did what we discussed. I did the journal-
therapist: Okay.
client: -for a week, uh, trying to mark down the-the difference in my smoking, being more aware when I had the urge, if I could stop the urge-
therapist: Mm.
client: -and I found it was okay. It got a little bit scary on the weekend because, uh, uh, the urge has kept on coming-
therapist: Sure.
client: -to have a cigarette.
therapist: Sure.
client: But during the week, I was able to cut down at least two or three cigarettes a week, and that's just in one week. So-
therapist: So, you've been able to cut down by two or three cigarettes? That's amazing. I mean, given how much you were smoking.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So, you were able to keep the, uh, the journal?
client: Yes.
therapist: You-- Sounds like you did that, and that allowed you to really focus on the time [unintelligible 00:00:57] delaying your cigarettes. So-so that's gone well. So, what are the things that are not going as well as you'd liked?
client: It just seemed to get worse when it was the weekend-
therapist: Right.
client: -and I was going out with friends and I was home a lot of the day-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -instead of at work. And I found that, um, it was really hard to stop those urges.
therapist: Okay. So, these automatic cigarettes, when you're socializing and you're-- you have time on your hands, really, are the problems that you're facing-
client: Yes.
therapist: -uh, and that you've noticed are more difficult than the others?
client: But I marked it in the book. Uh, that's one thing I said to myself, I'll be honest in my marking down.
therapist: In marking it down, okay.
client: So, I'm gonna have to really be aware of the weekends. Maybe get some kind of hobby or-or join some group or something on the weekends to keep me busy.
therapist: Okay. So, and you've thought about already, what you might do, such as getting a hobby. Any other thoughts of what you might do to help you overcome this?
client: If I can just postpone it-
therapist: Okay.
client: -and-and say, "Okay, I'm not gonna have it at home-
therapist: Right.
client: -I'll have it when I get to work or on the way to work."
therapist: Right.
client: 'Cause I-I-I-
therapist: Sure.
client: And then, uh-uh, what I'd like to do is try not to smoke in my house.
therapist: Okay. So, from now to the next time you come back and see me, what is it that you'd like to-to work on?
client: I think I'd just like to do what I did this first week. I liked the idea of marking it down.
therapist: Okay, so you can continue with that.
client: I-- And it took me a week and I'm down two cigarettes a day, I-I figure.
therapist: Sure.
client: What I'd like to do is maybe go down to five cigarettes, in other words, another three a day.
therapist: Okay.
client: And, um, 'cause I smoke a large pack and small pack, maybe just two small packs.
therapist: You said five cigarettes this time.
client: Yes.
therapist: And any thoughts about what concretely you could do to make that happen?
client: I can try each day to count.
therapist: Right.
client: And I'm still gonna try that when I get the urge to let it go, fight it, and maybe not go out for a cigarette until the next urge comes.
therapist: Right. [unintelligible 00:02:58]
client: So, if I [unintelligible 00:02:59] between two of them-
therapist: Sure.
client: -and also coming back and-and talking to you really helps 'cause I have someone to-
therapist: Sure.
client: -discuss it with.
therapist: So, given what you're-you're attempting to do, when would it be good for you to come back and talk about this?
client: I wouldn't mind coming back in a week again because this is all new and-and a week, I can handle a week.
therapist: Absolutely. Okay.
client: Okay, thank you doctor.
therapist: Good. So, we'll see you in a week.
client: Yes, thank you.