therapist: Would you like to answer some questions and kind of do a self-evaluation about how you're feeling around alcohol and the contraception?
client: Sure.
therapist: Okay. So we're working on a 10 point of scale 1 to 10, 1 being not important, 10 being very important. One being not confident, one being very confident. So on a scale of 1 to 10, which number best reflects how important it is to you to drink the-- what risk limits?
client: I would say an eight.
therapist: You'd say an eight. Okay. And on a scale of 1 to 10, how confident are you at the present time that you can drink below risk levels?
client: I would say a four.
therapist: Amount of four.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Okay. And so let's look at those two. You're-you're thinking it's pretty important, but your confidence is down here, uh, a four, but it's not a one. What makes you confident that you can drink below risk levels and you remember what those are?
client: Um, I think it's because you've told me I'm at risk and I have alcoholism in my family and I really don't want to go down that path. So I'm-I'm confident that I can change that at this point.
therapist: Okay. So that gives you a good reason not to drink. Okay. Anything else?
client: Um, well, I have a group of friends that doesn't drink that I hang out with. And I think when I hang out with them, it's not an issue. So that also helps me.
therapist: So you have a support group that gives you the ability to have fun and still drink below risk levels?
client: Yep.
therapist: Okay. Anything else?
client: Nope.
therapist: Now let's look at your self-evaluation of your birth control. So now we're doing the risk of pregnancy and the use of birth control. So on a scale of 1 to 10, how important is it to you to use effective birth control every time you have sex to keep from getting pregnant?
client: I would say an eight.
therapist: An eight. Okay. And on a scale of 1 to 10, how confident are you at the present time that you- that you can use effective birth control?
client: Every time,-
therapist: Every time.
client: -probably a six.
therapist: Correctly as it's prescribed.
client: Probably a six.
therapist: Probably a six. Okay. So you're pretty confident that you can do it. And why are you a six and not a two or three?
client: Um, I'm a six because I think if I drink less, I'll be more reliable with using birth control. I tend to not use it when I'm-- I drank too much and I don't really care too much.
therapist: Okay. So it's kind of linked to your drinking, the fact that, um, that you can-- if you can take care of that drinking, you can take care of the-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -birth control issue and this importance comes down as your reason why you're not down here.
client: Yes.
therapist: Very good. So it looks like, um, you're using a good method of birth control, you're just not able to use it effectively. And you've linked it back here to the drinking. So would you like to develop a plan around your alcohol use at this-- today?
client: Before I leave?
therapist: Yes.
client: Okay.
therapist: Okay. And if you need more information, we can get that for you.
client: Okay.
therapist: Okay.