therapist: Hello, Rick. Welcome.
client: Kia ora.
therapist: Good to see you here. I see on your file that you're, uh, [unintelligible 00:01:18].
client: Yup. That's right.
therapist: What part of the [unintelligible 00:01:22] are you from?
client: I'm from down south.
therapist: Oh, okay.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Right down the bottom? Down Bluff?
client: Yes sir. I'm from Invercargill just short of Bluff. All my family is still down there.
therapist: Oh, are they? So you were born down there and-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -raised down there?
client: Mm-hmm. Country boy.
therapist: Country boy. Been up in Christchurch how long?
client: I've been up here since I was 18.
therapist: Oh, so you've been here a while?
client: Just a little while. Yeah.
therapist: Oh good. You got family out here?
client: Uh, just my own.
therapist: Just your own whānau here. [unintelligible 00:01:51]. Well, Rick, I'm sort of, uh, interested in that, you know, you and I are gonna been doing some work together for a while. I'm sort of wondering what sort of thoughts you'd be having on your way here today.
client: Um, I was thinking about what you might ask me, what I would say. I'm thinking about my kids, thinking about having to take a day off work.
therapist: Right.
client: It's a bit of a bitch.
therapist: Okay. I see you've had a bit of experience with, uh, coming to prevention services.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: What's that been like for you in the past?
client: Uh, it's been okay. Um, it hasn't been bad.
therapist: Right.
client: I don't know. Kind of nothing, really.
therapist: Okay. Similar sort of offending in the past that's brought you back again this time?
client: Yeah.
therapist: One of the, um, things that I've learned over the years, Rick, is that a lot of guys get to the doors out there and don't come inside and, um, you've come inside. What does that tell me about you?
client: Um, I hope that it says that I want to, um, make some changes.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: So is that different from when you've come in here before?
client: Yeah. And I still had to walk through those doors so-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -but, um, I just think about my kids, you know.
therapist: Yeah. So they're really important to you?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah. And do you have your kids with you full-time or-
client: No. No, I don't. I see them, um, once a fortnight.
therapist: Okay. And what's it like for you?
client: It sucks.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Yeah.
therapist: What would you really like to happen in terms of, uh, you and your children?
client: I just-- I'd love to be able to see them whenever I can, whenever I wanted to.
therapist: Yeah.
client: You know. I, um, they're my whole world and-and I've fucked things up.
therapist: Right.
client: So, you know.
therapist: So coming along to see me and you and I are doing some work together, then you're going on to do a program, how important is that gonna be for you and your children?
client: It's really important.
therapist: Mm-hmm. If I was to put it on a scale of say 1 to 100, 1 being not really important, 100 being really, really important, whereabouts on that scale would you you be?
client: It's, uh, um, it's hard because-because I'm, uh, I'm not a bad person. I've just done some stupid shit, but I'm not a bad person.
therapist: Right.
client: In-in regards to my kids, I'd be100- 100%.
therapist: Right.
client: If it means say, I can have my-- see my kids whenever I- whenever I want.
therapist: Yeah. What do you think it'd be like for your kids if they were sitting here now and they heard you say that this was really, really important to you and to them? That you gave this program 100%. Well, then what might that be like for them to hear that?
client: Um, I-I-I'd hope that they'd be proud of me. I wouldn't want my kids to see me- to see me here though. But I- But I hope they would be proud of me.
therapist: Okay.
client: 'Cause I'm-- Yeah.
therapist: Good. Anybody else in your family that would be really proud of-- that you're taking these steps?
client: Um, oh, my mom.
therapist: Yeah. Your is mum still down south?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yeah. Does she know that you're here today?
client: No.
therapist: So how might it be for her if she knew that you're talking like this today? That-- 'Cause it sounds to me like you're really serious this time making some changes.
client: Yeah, I am.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I just, um, I don't- don't know where to s-- where to start. I don't know.
therapist: So do you think doing this program and completing this program this time would be a good place to start?
client: Yeah, I hope so. I-- So I would genuinely want to, I genuinely want to do something to help myself. I don't deliberately fuck things up for myself.
therapist: Yeah. So you and I are going to be doing a little bit of work together then. And, um, and sometimes it-it can get quite tough. And I'm just wondering before we go any further, when the going gets tough, a lot of guys bail out. I'm just wondering are you one of those guys?
client: No, this is important to me.
therapist: Right.
client: I have, um, I've-- it's important to me.
therapist: Good. One of the other things we're really conscious of with is, um, sometimes we do this work in isolation from others. And one of the things we want to ask people is about who they're going to be accountable to. I'm thinking like with your children, uh, your mom and other people that maybe you're interacting with. Who-who else in your life do you think would be supportive of you, and who would you need to let them know that you're actually going through this sort of program?
client: I, um, I'm separated at the moment from my missus and-
therapist: What was-- what was your partner's name?
client: Uh, Kirsty.
therapist: Kristy.
client: I would- I would love f-f-for her to know that I'm doing this and for her to know that I mean it, but, um, I know she wouldn't give a shit right now actually.
therapist: Right. In terms of your employer, would they be supportive?
client: Uh, yeah, I don't know. Maybe, but I don't know if I want them to know though.
therapist: Okay. What do you think it might be like for you to explore that with them?
client: Uh, I don't know.
therapist: Any other family members that, uh, live close that, uh, you think would be supportive?
client: I'm pretty much by myself up here.
therapist: Okay. The reason why I'm asking this, Rick, is just, um, you know, part of, um, uh, being responsible is turning up and doing the program.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: The other aspect of that is kind of like who we're going to be accountable to while we're doing the program. So one of the- one of the challenges, one of the riddle I'm going to put in front of you is like who else can we get involved to support you while you're going through this?
client: Um, I don't know. I don't, um, have that many people-
therapist: Okay.
client: -that I am-- I don't have that many people I trust to support me. My mates, I love them but, um, yeah, I don't know.
therapist: Okay. So as we're gonna do this work together and go through this, uh, this program, one of the things we-we don't want to do is fall into the same trough we did last time. So I-I just want to leave that with you to think about next time we come together. There may be two or three other people that you think of that can be really supportive, that we-we need to let know that you're [unintelligible 00:10:50] each gonna make these changes and this time, you're serious about it. So let your mother and, uh, and, um, your partner, how might that happen? How does that sound to you?
client: Yeah, let's give it some thought.
therapist: Rick, I get a sense that you're kind of padding this walk a little bit on your own at the moment. Would that be true?
client: Yeah. That'll definitely be true.
therapist: Your family is down south. I mean,who-who-who else do you think would be really interested in sup-supporting you, rowing with you if you like on this journey?
client: Uh, I have a good relationship with my mum,-
therapist: Okay.
client: -with my brothers and sisters.
therapist: Yeah.
client: My mum is actually pretty important to me.
therapist: Yeah. How would it be for your mum, do you think, if you were to tell her that this is something that you're-- is really important for you and that you know that this time you really need to do this for her and for the family? What-what might that be like for her to hear?
client: I think she'd be proud of me.
therapist: Yeah. All right.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Brothers and sisters, that, uh, would also be very supportive if you were to make this journey?
client: Yeah. Yeah. A good, uh, good family.
therapist: Good. So how would you go about getting them to support you, to come on board, and be accountable to doing this work together?
client: Um, I don't know. Um, have some-somebody just to listen.
therapist: And, um, I’m just trying to imagine what do you think your mom would want to say to you if she was sitting here with us now and she heard you talking about this?
client: She would- she would tell me that she loves me. She would tell me that she believes that I could do it.
therapist: Mm. What do you think she might want for you, like upon her for your children?
client: For them to have a father they can look up to.
therapist: I’m getting a strong sense that's what you want as well.
client: It is what I want. Definitely.
therapist: So, in terms of having the confidence to do this with the support of your whānau and ours, where do you think your confidence level might be now?
client: If I had their support of my-my family and [silence] I want to say that would be higher. I just know I fucked it up in the past. If they were there to support me now, then I’d be 99% sure.
therapist: That's a huge move up the scale, isn't it? So getting your family on board, getting your whānau on board is going to be really important for us.
client: Yeah.