therapist: So, we were, um- we were just talking a little bit about sustained talk, which most people call denial.
client: Well, I'm glad I don't have any of that.[laughter]
therapist: You're a lucky man.
client: Thank you.
therapist: So, um, it also, um-- Anyway, it's-it's when people are just saying, "Um, you know, this is why I don't wanna change. You know, I'm happy the way that I am. You know, it's, you know, um, God made it that marijuana stuff," you know, things like that. So-
client: Yeah, okay.
therapist: -so, you're gonna, um, play with me a little bit and, um-
client: Yeah.
therapist: -and you're gonna—
client: Well, you were asking me why I don't like to take my medicine.
therapist: Right. So, you're-you're a, um-um, a patient who's been diagnosed with some s- maybe schizophrenia, bipolar.
client: I like to call it mild schizophrenia.
therapist: Okay, mild schizophrenia is fine. Good. Okay, so-
client: And-and-and, uh—
therapist: -just a touch.
client: Yeah, just a little schizophrenia. I'm-I'm-- But, I'm okay with it, and so am I.
therapist: Okay. [laughs] And-and-and, uh, if you wanted to maybe even, you know, a little drinking and weed in there 'cause it's also very kind. [crosstalk]
client: Oh, that makes me f-- Yeah, that makes me feel-
therapist: Okay.
client: -relaxed.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I need that.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Um-
therapist: Okay.
client: -I gotta be relaxed, you know-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -if-if you had, you know- if you had to ride around in the back of a garbage truck all day like I do-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -uh, it's, uh- it's stressful, you know. [clears throat] But, the doctor- you know, the other doctor put me on this medicine and-and I gotta take it every day. And, I-I don't like it. Uh, I'll just be honest with you, I don't like it.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: It doesn't-- I don't like the way it makes you feel, um, I don't like the way it makes me act, and it's taken my sex drive, and just thrown it at the back of the garbage truck.
therapist: Well, that is a bummer. I mean—
client: It is.
therapist: So you said the-the first one you said, you don't like the way it makes you feel?
client: Right.
therapist: So, tell me a little bit about what you don't like about- what you've noticed about it?
client: Well, i-it's kinda like I'm in kind of a dreamy world. I-it kind of, I don't know, i-it just seems like I'm kinda like living in the middle of a cotton ball or something like that, where just things are kinda soft and, I don't know, I-- It just, the-the spice of life doesn't seem to be there. It seems like everything's bland, and nothing really-- Food doesn't taste the same, and things don't smell right, and—
therapist: Very dull.
client: Very dull.
therapist: Very dull.
client: Very dull.
therapist: Yeah.
client: That's a good way to sum it up. And it's-- Well, you understand it, uh, it's just- it's not good.
therapist: Mm. So, and then you said, you don't like how it makes you act, um, if you can tell me a little bit about that.
client: Well, I feel like it's taken part of my personality and just thrown it away. I don't really feel like I'm all there, right. You know, like, um, I like to be spontaneous and funny, and-and all that night, and I- and I don't-- You know, by the time I come up with a-a funny remark to the situation, everybody's left the room, and-[laughter]-stuff like that. And-and-- [chuckles]
therapist: It's really, your timing is [unintelligible 00:03:13]
client: Absolutely.
therapist: So you feel slow.
client: And so, as you can can tell, I didn't take my medication today, I'm-I'm-I'm really on my game today. So.
therapist: So, it's, you know, thinking as quickly and responding as quickly and-and things like that-- [crosstalk]
client: More like takes the edge off-
therapist: Yeah.
client: -for sure.
therapist: Yeah.
client: Well, you understand that.
therapist: Yeah.
client: You-you can- you can understand why I don't take it.
therapist: To tell you, it sounds terrible, actually. Yeah. So, that that-that really-- And then- and then, to top it all off, literally, I mean, no sex drive.
client: Right-right.
therapist: And-and your wife, what does she have to say about that?
client: Well, she wants to know who I am and what did I do with her husband.
therapist: Yeah. Where's Scott? Where did- where did Scott go? That feisty, spirited guy, where- where'd he go?
client: Yeah.
therapist: With the libido out the door.
client: Yeah. And, uh- and so, she-- Actually, she-- When I first went on the medicine, she thought I was maybe messing around with somebody else, 'cause, I-I just wasn't interested in it at all.
therapist: Oh, okay.
client: I canceled my subscription to the spice channel.
therapist: I didn't even know they had a spice channel. [chuckles]
client: I don't know if they still have it or not. [chuckles]
therapist: So they-- So, um, before you started taking the medication, though, when she was, you know, um-- Even though now she's like, "Where is my old Scott," and stuff, well, were there any times when she wanted you to go on the medication? And, if so, what-what prompted those?
client: Well, if I stay off the medication too long, I-- Some people might say there's a problem with that, you know.
therapist: You were right.
client: Well, I guess running around the neighborhood with no clothes on isn't really good.
therapist: Okay.
client: Um, I thought I had a, uh—
therapist: Might get you into trouble [unintelligible 00:05:06]
client: Yeah, well, I thought I had my gym shorts on, but they said that I didn't.
therapist: Okay. What else?
client: Well, I-I ended up in the hospital.
therapist: What do you think about the hospital?
client: Don't like that hospital.
therapist: No.
client: Uh. [clears throat] I'm not sure that the hospital is worse than the cotton ball, but I don't like it either.
therapist: So, you'd really like to stay out of that hospital?
client: Well, I got a question for you. You're a doctor, why don't you guys come up with some- something else besides either being in the hospital or taking this stuff every day, can you come up with something? I mean, you guys, we put a man on the moon 50 years ago, I mean, and you still got to give me this stuff that makes me feel like a-a zombie with-- That hasn't had a drink or water in four days, it-it just doesn't seem right. Either you guys ought to come up with something better. That's what I think.
therapist: I agree with you, I really do. So-- And I- and I think that a lot of times, um, the medications, they do have a lot of side effects, and I completely understand why people don't wanna take them-
client: Yeah.
therapist: Yet, at the same time, I know running around and getting in trouble for being naked or having to go to the hospital, not such a good thing either. Um, I'm wondering if, um- if I could run some ideas by you that some other patients of mine have tried?
client: I suppose.
therapist: Okay, thanks. Um, we could if you're-- 'Cause, as you can tell, this is really more of an art than a science, um, try some other medications and see how you do on them, and perhaps, you won't have these side effects. And, um, it-it really is just a matter of kind of experimenting around to get, uh, to see if we can get to a point that at least you're not having these really bad things happen of getting into the hospital and getting arrested and stuff versus feeling more like that-that spirited Scott that, you know, watches Spice channel, you know, I mean-- Because I can tell the spirit of Scott is, uh, a hoot.
client: Well. Yeah. Well, yeah, I-I'd like to. I don't know, is it-- Can you- can you drink with them, some of these other ones?
therapist: Well, you know, uh, Scott, well, tell me a little bit since you brought that up. Yeah, obviously, drink and tell me a little bit about your [unintelligible 00:07:35]
client: Well, I don't really drink like people-- Like some alcoholic or something but, I do—
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I-I like to take the edge off-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: You know, with a few drinks, you know, not-not a lot, you know, and-and really-
therapist: How-how often do you do that?
client: Not every day.
therapist: Maybe every other day?
client: Maybe.
therapist: Okay.
client: Maybe not, uh-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: You know, it's not all the time, it's-it's not- it's not a problem.
therapist: Okay.
client: Certainly not a problem.
therapist: How would you know if it was a problem?
client: Well, if I was like getting arrested for drunk driving.
therapist: So, if you got a DUI, you would really know.
client: Well, that's what alcoholics do. I'm not an alcoholic.
therapist: Okay.
client: Um, I'm just- yeah I just like to have a few drinks. I mean, you know, obviously, I-I have, uh, this diagnosed condition, and-and I think, you know, if I were able to, you know, maybe take a few hits off of the joint and have a couple of beers, I think that's about the same as taking the medicine.
therapist: Well, you know, what, I-- There are a lot of people that wouldn't disagree with you on that exactly. You know, so, um, uh, but I know that they-they were never quite sure how they were all interacting all together. Like the, um- the weed kind of tends to make people a little paranoid anyway.
client: Yeah, I-I-I got to be careful with it. If I take more than a hit or two of it, it-it-it can be a bit of a problem.
therapist: Yeah. Why, what happens if you take a little too much of it?
client: I get edgy.
therapist: Yeah.
client: I-I-I get edgy.
therapist: Yeah. And you don't like that?
client: No-no. I'd-I'd like to just be normal as well. I'd real-- I'd like to just be normal where I don't have to take medicine, and I don't end up in the hospital three times a year, and I don't find myself in the neighbor's yard—
therapist: Running around naked.
client: With a statue. It's—
therapist: Okay.
client: They were really ticked about that statue thing this time, and I don't know why I keep going back over there, but—
therapist: You must like that statue.
client: I really don't, but, apparently, when I'm in that state, uh, there's something about it, I'm not sure.
therapist: So, if-if-if we could maybe find a medication that didn't give you as bad side effects, perhaps you might not have to drink as much or at all or smoke a little weed to take the edge off. I mean, who knows? [unintelligible 00:09:55]
client: Well, maybe. I-I-I guess that's possible.
therapist: Yeah.