client: I just feel helpless about this whole deal.
therapist: You're hopeless about what's going on.
client: Mm. I just feel helpless about this whole deal.
therapist: You seem at a loss of where to go from here.
client: No one wants to help me.
therapist: You feel like people aren't willing to help.
client: No one wants to help me.
therapist: You feel alone.
client: Mm-hmm. I really shouldn't have done it.
therapist: You realize it's something you shouldn't have done.
client: Mm-hmm. I really shouldn't have done it.
therapist: You're feeling regretful.
client: Mm-hmm. I couldn't help myself.
therapist: Uh, it's something that just happened.
client: I couldn't help myself.
therapist: You're nervous that you've lost control of your behaviors.
client: It's actually been a fabulous week.
therapist: You've really had a good week.
client: It's actually been a fabulous week.
therapist: You seem excited about that.
client: Mm-hmm. I know who to hang out with, I'm not stupid.
therapist: You definitely know how to make good decisions.
client: I know who to hang out with, I'm not stupid.
therapist: You know that, um, positive peer influences have been helpful for you.
client: Mm-hmm. I'm letting the whole family down. They had such high hopes for me.
therapist: You feel like you're letting your family down.
client: Mm-hmm. I'm letting my whole family down. They had such high hopes for me.
therapist: You feel like you've been a disappointment for them.
client: Mm-hmm. This is not what I want for my life.
therapist: This is not what you've envisioned.
client: This is not what I want for my life.
therapist: You're willing to take steps to improve on that.
client: Mm-hmm. I really want to get off the program.
therapist: You don't want to be here.
client: I really want to get off the program.
therapist: You seem motivated to follow the rules.
client: Mm-hmm. I still crave smoking, even though I've stopped.
therapist: It's something that's always on your mind.
client: I still crave smoking, even though I've stopped.
therapist: It takes a lot of, um, strength to still not smoke, even though you're still craving.
client: Mm-hmm.