therapist: So let me tell you what I normally do in this, um, this interview, and we-we'll talk for up to maybe 20 minutes or so. Normally what I do is just give some feedback from all of those questionnaires that you answered last week-
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: -and then we just talk together about that. So, um, but I always like to just start with wherever you would like to start as well.
client: Um, yeah, I, [sigh] that, I mean, like, when I was doing those questionnaires, it was weird because, I mean, I guess I don't really think about, like, you know, the drinking being, like, this huge deal and I don't-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -ever really think about, like-like, how much I drink.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, and, like, fi- like filling out, like, how much I'm drinking every day, it was like, whoa, you know-
therapist: Hm.
client: -like, I just didn't ever really think about it, like, that I was-- like, if I try to actually count the drinks, it's, kind of, a lot, I mean, it's, kind of, a lot.
therapist: You were pretty shocked at what you learned about your patterns.
client: Well, yeah, 'cause, like, I also, kind of, thought that, like, I drink, like, about as much as my friends did and then, like, I went back and I was, like, talking to my roommate about it and I was, like, telling her that, you know, I was drinking, like, like 10 drinks on the weekends, like, including Thursday, so like, Thursday, Friday-
therapist: Hm.
client: -Saturday, Sunday.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And then she was like, "Sarah, that's cra-- Like, that is crazy. Why are, you know, like, where are you drinking this?" And I was- I was like, "Well, you know, like, different places." And I-I guess, like, I don't know, my friends didn't, like, know. Anyway, it's, yeah, I don't know.
therapist: Yeah, this information has opened your eyes in some ways and as you talked to your roommate about it, she was even shocked to know that you were drinking as much as you- as you realized when you did the questionnaire.
client: Yeah, and yeah, I guess it was just like, I thought that everybody was, like, doing it, you know-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -but that's not really what was going on. [chuckles]
therapist: Yeah, the fact that your drinking stands out from others is clearly not something you had ever really taken into consideration before?
client: Yeah.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Yeah, so, that was the thing that, like, was really the most weird about doing those-
therapist: Okay.
client: -forms.