therapist: Tell me a little bit about what brings you today.
client: Well, my wife is making me be here today. Uh, she thinks that it's a problem that I'm smoking weed, so she said, "You need to go and get some help."
therapist: Okay. Um, so you said that your wife said it's a problem. Um, so do you not feel like it's a problem for you?
client: No, I don't think it's a problem at all. It's something I do to help me relax. In fact, I think it's something that is good for me, but—
therapist: Okay. Can you tell me a little bit more about how, like, it's-it's not an issue for you?
client: Yeah. You know, like I said, you know, I'll come home, I'll, you know, smoke a couple rolls after a long day or something. I'm able to just relax, not really think about things. You know what I mean? I'm still working and, you know, paying the bills. We have a house, so I don't- I don't know why it's a problem.
therapist: Okay. Um, is it causing any problems in areas like your marriage or anything like that?
client: I mean, I guess a little bit, you know, like-- I mean, she's the one that-that has me being here. We've been fighting about it, you know. Uh, uh, I don't know, I-I guess I'm-I'm getting pretty frustrated with her. She just won't get off my back about it. So I finally said, "Fine, I'll go see someone."
therapist: Okay. Um, so are you here to maybe work on your marriage? Is that an area that you are wanting to-to work on?
client: Uh, I mean, I'm just here because she said that I need to be in here. So, I mean, yeah, I wanna save my marriage, you know.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And, I mean, I love her, you know, but I'm here because she's making me be here.
therapist: Okay. Um, what is it that you wanna get out of being here?
client: Um, I mean, I guess- I guess I need some strategies for figuring out how to ease stress without, I guess, getting high.
therapist: Okay. And that's a very good reason for being here. Um, can you talk to me about maybe some of your-- the goals that you have?
client: Well, I mean, I just failed the UA at work. Uh, I think I failed UA at work. I don't know. I-I use- I use some stuff that was [inaudible 00:02:00] not my system. But-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I don't- I don't think it's gonna work. And so I really liked to be able to keep my job.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: Um, I'd l- I'd like to stop fighting with my wife. Um-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -I guess those are my big goals.
therapist: Okay. Um, do you see your substance use as being, um, maybe a cause of those other issues at all? Do you see them linked at all?
client: I mean, yeah, I guess- I guess if I think about it, that's kind of the common theme.
therapist: Okay. Okay, um, how do you think that your substance use is going to affect your employment?
client: I'm pretty worried that I'm gonna get fired.
therapist: Okay.
client: I don't- I don't really know. We're the only shop in town that-that does the work that we use. So I don't- I don't know what else I'm gonna go do.
therapist: Okay.
client: So—
therapist: Okay. Um, and if you lost your job, what do you see being the consequences of that?
client: Um, my wife might leave me. Uh, might lose the house. Um, can't pay my bills.
therapist: Okay. Do you see that at all as being affected by the substance use?
client: Yeah, it's probably- it's probably the reason why all that's happening. I mean-
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: -If I lose my job, it's 'cause I failed the UA, so—
therapist: Okay. Um, so can you talk to me a little bit about, um, maybe where you wanna be 90 days from now? What do you want your life to look like?
client: I'll still have a job.
therapist: Okay.
client: Still have a wife and, uh, yeah, if I-- If those two things can happen then, you know—
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: I mean, I know if-if I lose my job, she leaving me. She's been getting after me about smoking weed for a long time, so—
therapist: Okay. So that's where you wanna get to. Um, what do you think that you need to do in the next, like, month or so to maybe help going in that direction?
client: Probably need to go talk to my boss and start taking some steps not to lose it.
therapist: Okay.