therapist: So, Tommy, I wanted to talk to because I was on Facebook the other day and saw some pictures that are kind of concerning to me of you and some of your friends at a party, and, you know, you're such a good kid. Like, I don't know what you're doing drinking. It's going to ruin your life.
client: Um, I mean, it was just the, like a social gathering. It wasn't like I was looking for it, uh, the drinks were there and I-- all my friends were doing it and it was just-- it's-it's not something that I like do occa- on occasion, but whenever the opportunity presents itself, it-it's nice to just let loose and have a little bit of fun sometimes.
therapist: But, Tommy, there's so many consequences with drinking. You know, you're not even 21 yet, you could get arrested, you could, you know, have a drunk driving accident. You could, you know, mess up your schoolwork. You have such a bright future ahead of you. It just really, really concerns me.
client: I-I get what you're coming from, but I-I-I really did. I-I thought that I had it under control and I didn't let myself get too far gone. I-I didn't want to be, um, how do I put this? Like, I want it to be in control and I wanted to make sure that all my friends were okay, so I didn't let myself drink too much.
therapist: There's really no such thing as not drinking too much. I mean, anything that's drinking when you're underage is drinking too much, you know. Like, think about it, think about all the things that can happen to you.
client: Yeah. I-I understand exactly what you're saying. And—
therapist: How much are you drinking?
client: I-I don't think I'm drinking that much. I mean, it's-it's mainly for social gatherings. Like it's nothing that I do, like by myself or whatever. It's just the—
therapist: Is it like every weekend?
client: Every other weekends, I would say.
therapist: Tommy, I'm just so concerned, you know, can't you think of anything better to do?
client: Um, I-I guess I can. I-I can probably be more productive in my schoolwork and rather than going out to parties as much and I-I do get you're coming from and—
therapist: Yeah. Is-- are your friends the problem, like maybe you should just start hanging out with more kids in the youth group and not hang out with those kids that you were partying with?
client: Yeah, I guess I haven't really put it on myself. I guess it's really been forced on their account. And I've just been following in their footsteps just to-- just because it seems like what they're doing is a lot of fun. And I just want to make sure that I'm getting every bit of the high school experience that I can.
therapist: Well, there's a lot of things that seem fun in the moment that we know aren't a good choice, right? That's some of the things we talk about all the time is making good choices for our life and-and really doing what's best for you. And I just, you know, I really think you should think about making a big change here.
client: Mm. Yeah. I-I-I do see that maybe me drinking not as much would possibly better my life to-to a certain degree. And I-- it does make a lot of sense. And I-I guess I can put more effort into sort of lowering the level of drinking that—
therapist: I think you really need to quit.
client: Yeah. I mean, alcohol is just so prevalent in our society and it's just around me, wherever I go and parties and stuff that. I-I kind of feel like I should just, uh, get used to it or at least understand its, uh, its effects before I should let it get out of my life entirely. I don't- I don't really see it as something that will completely destroy my life.
therapist: I think you're wrong. You know, it really worries me. Anyway, um, I wish you would quit. If all you're going to do is cut down, that's better than nothing. You know, I appreciate you talking to me about this, but I'm gonna keep talking to you about it. It's really important.
client: Yeah. I-I-I just-- I don't see the problem in it right now and maybe it's because I haven't really had that traumatic of an experience but I'm—
therapist: Do you wanna wait for that happen? Do you wanna wait for a dramatic experience?
client: You're-you're right. I-I don't want- I don't wanna be too far gone before it's too late. Like I-I can imagine something possibly happening where it's to a degree where I can't escape. And I-I guess I've never really had any-any real experience where the alcohol has really affected me that much or affected anybody close to me that much. So I guess it's something that I feel like I'm control of, but in reality, I might not have as much control as I think.
therapist: All right. Well, maybe it's something we can work on together. And, you know, I think we should come up with a plan that's gonna work for you so that you can get control here and stop drinking.
client: Yeah. I-I think that that would be a good step forward into-- and a life of possibly being sober and just experiencing the true- the true aspects of life rather than the-the haziness of alcohol.
therapist: Okay, sounds good.
client: Okay.