therapist: So there are a lot of different directions that we could take. Um, you've mentioned wanting to make changes in your physical activity. You've mentioned wanting to make changes in your eating habits and also just wanting more body confidence. Um, what- what's on your mind is as far as a- as a change topic for the rest of our session today?
client: I think the activity piece is the kind of low-hanging fruit that I see. Um, I feel like it's gonna be harder for me to change some of my nutrition habits right out the gate, but if I can get into maybe an activity routine, that that could be good to help maybe some of the other changes happen later.
therapist: Yeah. Okay. So physical activity is feeling like the easiest change to look at first.
client: Yeah, I think so.
therapist: Great. So tell me a little bit more about your motivators for getting started in being more physically active. I know you shared energy levels and I know you've shared, um, that you'd like to see a boost in your mood and feeling less irritable and stressed. Any other benefits that really make you wanna make this change right now?
client: Yeah, I think just to feeling like physically stronger, um, like physically more able. Uh, last night I like struggled with the jar of salsa, like opening it. So I think that just stuff like that, um, you know, would be in addition to mood and being more productive and energy and all that stuff. Um, yeah, that that would be a definite end goal for me too. And then really to like, I think if I am more active, I think my body image or my body confidence would improve also.
therapist: Yeah. So you're wanting to feel stronger so that you can open jars and other things and- and also just have a better sense of confidence.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Great. So on a scale from zero to 10, zero being not at all ready to make a change in the area of physical activity, and 10 being let's- let's do this. I'm excited. I'm ready. Um, where- where do you fall on that scale?
client: Hmm, I'd say I'm about an eight.
therapist: Okay. So you're- you're feeling fairly motivated.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Uh, why didn't you pick a six?
client: Well, like I said, I just, I've identified like a lot of things that I think would be good. Um, if I were to be more active and I definitely wanna have that improved mood and energy, um, and feel better about myself. Um, so yeah, all of those things I think are what's really driving that- that rating.
therapist: Okay. You're noticing there- there are too many great benefits to being physically active and, um, today you've mentioned energy, mood, strength and body confidence.
client: Mm-hmm.
therapist: Am I missing anything else?
client: I don't think so.
therapist: Okay. Those are the big ones for you.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Fantastic. Well, um, now we can start looking at if you're interested in how that might look-
client: Mm-hmm, yeah.
therapist: - and- and what activities you might end up, um, choosing.
client: Yeah, that'd be great.
therapist: Okay.