therapist: Good, so, um, we're here today to talk just, uh, about whatever it is you'd like to talk about it.
client: Um, how about if we talk about, uh, the problem that I'm really having is, um, getting somebody motivated to do something, um, such as move out of my house.
therapist: Okay, so, um, there would be, so what you're, what you're attempting to do is, um, well-- Tell me, I guess, uh, tell me a little bit more about it so I understand it a little bit more.
client: Well, I-I offered my home to somebody and, uh, for, you know, uh, a transitional period.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: You know, and it seems that, um, it's hard for me to be assertive and say I think the, um, the, uh, transitional period is- has come and it's beginning to time to transition. So.
therapist: So that's a really kind thing of you to do to take someone into your home like that when they need help like that. And, um, but right now, you're thinking that, uh, time is up you'd like to get this person, you know, you're-you're-you're ready to have him or her move out and have your place back to yourself.
client: Yeah, that's, it's absolutely right that I want, I-I want change but I'm not, I am kind of, like, weak in that area where it's, like, the ability to actually say the words. You're right, yeah. I'd like to be able to do that.
therapist: Mm-hmm. And what would, uh, what would help you get to the point of actually, um, booting them out?
client: Um. [sighs] I don't know, I'm-I'm, I guess, I'm kind of, um, I care about the person and, you know, there's a certain amount of comfortability of having somebody with you, you know, and I'm just, so, I guess I am at war with myself because part of me wants the comfort of having a companion and the other part of me is just, you know-- I-I cannot-- I am not really sure what I wanna do, you know.
therapist: Mm-hmm. So you kind of feel two ways about it. You-you'd like to, um, you feel like at some level that the time is up for that person to go, and on the other hand, there's a certain amount of security in having him in the house and in knowing he's around.
client: Yeah, you know, it's kind of, like, the old sock- song saying hit the road Jack, don't you come back no more, no more, no more, no more. [laughs] And—
therapist: But you're not quite ready if you wanna sing that song.
client: [laughs] Well, first of all I think he would hit the road if I started singing that song 'cause I can sing. [laughs]
therapist: I thought you did a pretty nice job singing there right there, it's scary to be quite honest with you and I appreciate, I also appreciate your sense of humor in-in doing that.
client: Well, you know, in life you have to have a sense of humor in my- the way I view and otherwise, you know, I'd be like where's the news. [laughs] I mean, it's either—
therapist: That really helps you get through things is to be able to laugh about it.
client: Yeah, yeah, I have to laugh, I mean, even comedians say, you know, uh, most of-- What I've heard about comedians is that they are really not always that happy and they use that in a comical way to, you know, deal with life, so, yeah. [laughs] I kind of, maybe I should go into that. [laughs] Like this girl—
therapist: Your new career.
client: Yeah, like this girl Ruth that I know she's-she's, uh, got a serious job and she kind of does that on the side. [laughs]
therapist: So, um, what are the uh, uh, what would be the benefits to you right now to having him out of the house?
client: Mm. Let's see. Well, you know, I'm really not sure, I kind of, you know. Um, I'm having a hard time with that. Um.
therapist: Tell me a bit more about that.
client: Mm, well, I have to really think about it because-
therapist: Some guilt?
client: Yeah, yeah. Maybe some guilt and I, um, uh, I just, you know, [sighs] I go back and forth a little bit, you know.
therapist: Uh-huh.
client: Yeah.
therapist: Cause you wanna do the right thing because you're- because you're a good person and that's a- that's a really important value to you is that you- is that you help people out.
client: Yeah, I-I- yeah. I mean I- thank you. I-I-I appreciate you saying that I'm a good person. Like I feel I am. Um—
therapist: But you've done your duty. Duty is done.
client: Yeah. Oops, it's just hard to- it's just hard to, um, er, yeah. I- my j- my job is done and I have to start to realize that I have to be a little bit more assertive, I think, and a little bit more, um, sure of myself.
therapist: And so, what have you done in order to start getting them to Hit The Road, Jack?
client: Well, um, I've had co-conversations about with him and sometimes not-not so pleasant, but I'm-I'm just making, you know, 'cause I happen to sometimes just like hold things in. And then finally I- at-at one point I was really, you know, very logical about it. And then the other day I kind of got not so logical about it.
therapist: Okay.
client: [laughs]
therapist: So, uh, you were telling me earlier though that you've talked to some other people and he has some options about some other places to go to.
client: Yeah. That's the good thing that he does. And I mentioned them. I-I-I discussed that with him.
therapist: Mm-hmm.
client: And that gives me a relie- a sense of relief. Like I'm not just, you know, saying yeah. You know, go find your own place or, you know, I mean, there are places where he has a safety net to go to and that-that is something that I think I feel better about and that it makes it easier to discuss and giving them options that he can-- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
therapist: So, you might have to literally like pack his bags and help them get to those places, um.
client: Been there, done that. [laughs]
therapist: Okay. Are you-- This is something you've done before.
client: Yeah.
therapist: So whe-when-when are you gonna do it?
client: Well, um, I told him within a couple of days is, you know. I think, um, I-I- cause I have future plans, um, and some things that are up in the air with me as far as where I'm going to be living in. I've had this place for seven years, but I'm not sure, you know. Every day is a new- a new, uh, winding road that we go down, you know?
therapist: Mm-hmm, Mm-hmm.
client: Um.
therapist: And it's kind of scary.
client: Oh, God, yeah, yeah. But, you know, and it's scary to have an extra, a huge extra trunk that you have to carry with you [chuckles].
therapist: And he's that extra trunk.
client: Yeah, yeah.
therapist: Okay.
client: But I-I mean and it's not that I don't care about him, I do. But you know, it's just like, we're both- we're all adults here, come on.
therapist: Okay. All right. So, it sounds like you-you've actually worked this out until be out within a couple of days.
client: Um, that's the goal, you know.
therapist: Okay.
client: And I don't know what his plans are, but those are my plans.
therapist: Okay. Well, I have a funny feeling your plans will prevail. [laughter]
client: I like your way of thinking, girl. I-I'll tell him that. [laughs].
therapist: Well, thanks for-for talking and playing with our little things here.
client: Thank you